http://./topic2/one.txt	The two humpback whales that took a wrong turn and swam into the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta were reportedly spotted Wednesday night in the Pacific Ocean outside the Golden Gate, according to the U.S. Coast Guard.		A fishing vessel, the Orion, reported the sighting to the Coast Guard at about 8 p.m., said Coast Guard Petty Officer Jonathan Cole. The sighting supports what scientists had believed all day Wednesday -- that the mother and calf had departed from San Francisco Bay and re-entered their ocean home.		The apparent departure of the two humpbacks from the bay marks the end of an epic adventure that drew international attention and thrilled Northern California animal enthusiasts, many thousands of whom flocked to the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta to catch a glimpse of them and wish them well.		The whales had toured the delta for more than two weeks, and scientists believe the pair -- which were not seen during the daylight hours Wednesday -- had probably exited the Golden Gate on Tuesday night, leaving behind a trove of valuable data as a memento.		Scientists who tracked the pair say they will need time to collate and study all the information they gathered, but that the analyses should contribute substantively to the understanding of the species.		The two animals set an inland travel record for humpbacks, swimming about 90 miles through the delta and up a shipping channel to the Port of Sacramento. Throughout their sojourn that started May 13, researchers tried to both lure and drive the animals back to the ocean through a variety of means, including pipe-banging and squirting fire hoses.		In the end, the whales left on their own, swimming from Rio Vista to San Francisco Bay with no apparent impetus from their would-be rescuers.		One of the researchers who led the effort, John Calambokidis with the Cascadia Research Collective in Washington state, said it was learned that manmade noises can affect humpbacks somewhat, although it's unlikely the animals can be forced to swim where they don't want to go.		"We had influence but not control," he said.		The researchers who followed the mother and calf over the last two weeks agreed that some of the most useful information learned is related to antibiotics injected into the whales over the holiday weekend.		Both animals suffered ship propeller or keel wounds around the time they entered the bay, and researchers became worried as the gashes showed signs of festering. By the time the animals had spent a week in the delta, their skin also showed signs of deteriorating due to excessive exposure to freshwater.		So on Saturday, scientists injected both animals with antibiotics -- the first time humpbacks have been treated with such medicines.		The researchers used a foot-long needle and calculated dosages based on what is known about large animals that live on land, said Trevor Spradlin, a marine mammal biologist with the fisheries department of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.		The calf received about 60 milliliters of an antibiotic known as Baytril, and its mother thrice that -- roughly 6 fluid ounces, enough to fill a brimming wine glass.		By Tuesday night, the whales' skin and wounds had begun to heal; the medicine and the bay's saltwater probably played a role, scientists said.		Teri Rowles, the lead veterinarian at NOAA fisheries department, said the injection method almost certainly will be used in the future to help whales, including those that suffer from injures caused by boats or fishing nets.		The wayward whales presented a rare opportunity for researchers to spend several days with the same humpbacks.		"What has been wonderful about this event is that we could get extremely close to the whales for an extended period of time," Spradlin said. "The marine environment is a very tough place to work, the whales seldom are close and the time you can spend with them is usually limited."		Although the researchers were unable to attach a satellite tag to the mother whale, Calambokidis said he is optimistic that the humpbacks will be seen in the ocean and identified by markings on their fins and tail.		When the only other humpback known to have visited the delta swam back to the ocean in 1985, the whale -- dubbed Humphrey -- was spotted at least 10 times in the ocean during a span of five years, Calambokidis said.		Researchers will be "teasing" the data in coming months, comparing it with other humpback studies. With whale research, hard and fast facts are difficult to come by; everything depends on everything, Spradlin said.		"With their behavior, for example, we have to take into account not only the stimulus from the rescue boats but (the whales') relationship with each other another, the time of day, currents and other factors," he said. "Then we have to correlate that with other behavioral data from humpbacks in different situations."		Yet scientists may never know the answer to a key question -- why the two whales went into San Francisco Bay in the first place.		"It's hard to enter the mind of a whale, hard to know what motivates them," Spradlin said. "It's plausible they came in here to escape predators because of their wounds -- or maybe they just made a wrong turn."		Nevertheless, the emotional impact the whales left on residents may prove a legacy even greater than their contribution to science.		"What strikes me most about this event was the enormity of compassion and concern that people evinced for these two creatures," said Stan Minasian, a naturalist with the Oceanic Society. The San Francisco environmental group advocates for the protection of marine mammals and conducts whale-watching tours.		"Some people said we should let nature take its course," he said. "But we have so altered nature that only remnant populations of these great whales exist, and they deserve our utmost efforts to protect them. That's something most people instinctively recognized." 