http://./topic2/three.txt	 Maybe it's too much to ask a mother humpback whale and her calf to say goodbye.		TV crews and tourists trained their cameras on the waters beneath the Golden Gate Bridge early Wednesday to snap the million-dollar image the world has been waiting for since the endangered whales went off course by 90 miles into the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta more than two weeks ago.		But there was no slapping of flukes on the water, no dramatic farewell breaches.		Instead, with no sightings Wednesday of the pair that have come to be known as Delta and Dawn, scientists think - but do not know for sure - they must have slipped out quietly, in the dark, through the Golden Gate and back to the wilds where they belong.		"We all were hoping we could personally witness them returning to the ocean," said Trevor Spradlin, a marine biologist with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration who has been part of the rescue team. "But we just wanted them to be safe and sound."		Coaxing and prodding		The dozens of rescue team members who tried to lure them with whale songs and push them with banging pipes, who scared them with fire hoses and nursed their wounds with giant syringes of antibiotics, spent Wednesday on the San Francisco Bay wondering which way the mammals went.		"If we have learned anything about these two, they are going to do what they want to do, when they want to do it,"	Advertisement	said Bernadette Fees, a spokeswoman with the California Department of Fish and Game.		As on most nights, the rescue boats on Tuesday had left the whales on their own after dark, resting and circling about three miles from the Golden Gate Bridge. But unlike most mornings, when the whales have been easily spotted by 8 a.m., there was no sign of them Wednesday by boat or helicopter.		Because a satellite tag malfunctioned and couldn't be affixed to the mother, scientists must now track them the old-fashioned way - with a coordinated network of researchers as far north as British Columbia keeping their eyes open for them. They should know them when they see them - they will be the whales with the long scars across their backs, gashes likely caused from a boat's propeller weeks ago.		Scientific opportunity		For the sake of science, Spradlin said, "we have a dedicated effort to find them - to have a definitive idea of where they went."		The international brain trust of marine mammal experts involved in the rescue has been keeping meticulous daily notes, photos and videos of the operation. Scientists took DNA samples to determine where the whales are from and the sex of the calf, and, for the first time in the wild, administered antibiotics to humpbacks.		"We'd like to think we helped them, of course," Spradlin said. "We're going to do some rigorous analysis to see if we can find any trends and correlate between what we did and how the whales responded."		Help came in from as far away as New Zealand, where the 2-foot-long syringe was designed to deliver the big dose of medicine, which was donated by Pfizer and Bayer. Ed Lyman from the Hawaii Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary suggested fire hoses spray water to move them down river. John Calambokidis of the Cascadia Research Collective in Olympia, Wash., trailered a boat to the delta and helped collect the biopsy tissue. Colleen Kastak from the University of California-Santa Cruz and Pieter Folkens of the Alaska Whale Foundation provided acoustic playbacks of whale sounds.		Only once before - 22 years ago - did researchers have the opportunity to track a lost humpback whale for so long at such close range. That was Humphrey, who after 26 days near Rio Vista in the delta, finally succumbed to banging pipes and whale songs to move through the Golden Gate - but not before thwacking his tail to tourists at Fisherman's Wharf. But Humphrey was a male, alone and uninjured. The cow and calf were a different story.		No sign		For a time, a happy ending for the whales was far from certain.		Apparently on their annual migration from Mexico to feeding grounds as far north as Washington, the whales were spotted May 10 swimming inland through the San Francisco Bay and up the Sacramento River. They passed Rio Vista heading upriver on May 13, ending up in the Port of Sacramento on May 16.		A rescue operation began in earnest there, where the same sounds that lured Humphrey were played underwater. The mammals didn't respond, however, until a pair of tugboats apparently spooked them downriver. They stopped 25 miles south at the Rio Vista bridge for several days, where their health became noticeably worse. Out came the antibiotics, the pipes and the fire hoses.		During Memorial Day weekend, the whales made another big move, traveling to the Benicia Bridge by Monday. Tuesday, they swam into the San Francisco Bay near Angel Island, where they seemed ready to rest for the night.		At dawn though, TV crews in helicopters couldn't find them.		At last, they had slipped away.