Cars rattle again over University Bridge
Water main break had closed span

By VANESSA HO
P-I REPORTER

The University Bridge reopened to vehicles Thursday afternoon, 
after workers finished filling a gaping earthen hole and
 commuters endured two mornings of traffic woes.

The busy bridge, used by more than 30,000 cars a day, was closed 
Wednesday morning after a large water main burst under its 
southern end, creating a sinkhole that devoured two unoccupied 
cars.

The hole included a significant amount of soil erosion under the
 bridge's southeastern support. Transportation workers finished
 filling that void with more than 40 cubic yards of concrete and
 sand Thursday.

"We're happy that it did not cause damage to the structural 
integrity of the bridge," said Mary Beth Turner, a spokeswoman 
for the city's Department of Transportation. "We're sorry that
 it did inconvenience all the residents in that area. That's an
 area where we've had slides several times before, so they're
 kind of used to the drill."

Although the bridge is considered structurally sound, 
transportation workers will continue to measure movement in the
 supports.

The bridge's 3 p.m. reopening came in time for the annual boating
 festivities this weekend. The event, which celebrates the
 opening of boating season, involves the closure of the nearby
 Montlake Bridge to car traffic.

Elsewhere, city crews had much to do. The broken main spilled 3
 million gallons of water, creating a sinkhole measuring about 
30 feet wide by 50 feet long. It washed out Portage Bay Place 
East, a small road accessed by residents of about 100 homes, most
 of them houseboats.

Utility crews will also repair the broken water main -- a
 cast-iron, 24-inch-diameter pipe -- and inspect it for why it
 cracked. The pipe was laid in 1917, but cast-iron mains are
 often expected to last 150 to 200 years.

"It's been through some pretty big earthquakes," said Joe
 Mickelson, a Seattle Public Utilities water-operations director.

He said the rerouted water is working fine for now, but the pipe
 needs to be fixed to accommodate increased summer water demand.

On Thursday, transportation workers were paving an alternative 
road for residents through the steep parking lot of Red Robin, 
a popular fixture in the Eastlake neighborhood.

With the din of excavators and bulldozers around him, the 
restaurant's facilities manager, John Allen, shrugged.

"You just kind of have to take it with a smile," he said. 
"You take the good with the bad."

Houseboat resident Ellyn Swanson was grateful that her water and
 gas were back on. As she walked her dog, Penny, the one
 inconvenience she had now was that Penny couldn't go under the
 bridge -- something she likes to do.

"It's all nice and quiet now," Swanson said.

Blaine Hammond, who also lives on a houseboat, said he was glad
 he had just shopped for groceries before the water main ruptured. 
City crews had allowed residents a short opportunity to move cars 
off the washed-out road Wednesday, but Hammond had been busy at
 the time.

Hammond often walked the University Bridge for errands. As he
 walked it Thursday morning, he enjoyed the sun and an unusually
 quiet span.