http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20070510/ap_on_re_eu/britain_terror_arrests	British police make 4 terror arrests - Yahoo! News British police make 4 terror arrests Thu May 10, 2:37 AM ET LONDON - British police arrested four people Wednesday in connection with the suicide bombings that killed 52 bus and subway passengers in London in 2005. Police refused to confirm reports that the wife of one of the bombers was detained. They said a woman and two men were arrested in West Yorkshire and a 22-year-old man was arrested in Birmingham. All were arrested on suspicion of the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism and were being taken to London for interrogation, police said. Searches were under way at two apartments in Birmingham, and at five addresses in West Yorkshire &#151; two houses in Dewsbury, two houses in the Beeston neighborhood of Leeds and one house in Batley, police said. Mohammed Sidique Khan, identified as one of the four London bombers, was a resident of Dewsbury and had grown up in Beeston. The British Broadcasting Corp. report that Khan's wife, Hasina Patel, 29, was among those arrested. "We never discuss the identity of people who have been arrested," a police spokeswoman said on condition of anonymity in line with force policy. The bombers struck on three subway trains and a double-decker bus on July 7, 2005 &#151; the worst terrorist attack in British history. In March, police arrested three people, all from the same West Yorkshire area as three of the four suicide bombers. They were charged on April 5 with conspiring with the attackers. Those charged were Mohammed Shakil, of Beeston; Sadeer Saleem, of Beeston; and Waheed Ali, who recently lived in London but was formerly from Beeston. London's Metropolitan Police said they were continuing a "painstaking investigation with a substantial amount of information being analyzed and investigated." "As we have said previously, we are determined to follow the evidence wherever it takes us to identify any other person who may have been involved, in any way, in the terrorist attacks," the department said. "We need to know who else, apart from the bombers, knew what they were planning. Did anyone encourage them? Did anyone help them with money, or accommodation?" Full Coverage: Terrorism & 9/11 Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media Reuters, 10 minutes ago Cuba says U.S. broke anti-terrorism treaties Reuters, 25 minutes ago Six Ordinary Lives That Took a Detour to a World of Terror at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Fort Dix suspects' lives gave few clues AP via Yahoo! News, May 08 Jury selected for Padilla trial at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), May 09 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Fort Dix at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Michael Chertoff: Yes, we're at war. No, it's not hype. at Minneapolis Star Tribune, Apr 25 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint Sept. 11 suspect loses appeal in Germany U.S. confirms Afghan civilian casualties Most Viewed - World Iran, North Korea seek to boost cooperation Koreas adopt military agreement Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 CNN - 40 minutes ago Radler can&#39;t be trusted, Greenspan says CBC.ca - 2 hours, 52 minutes ago Politics and the Pope ABC News - Fri May 11, 9:34 AM ET Blair endorses Brown as successor CBC.ca - Fri May 11, 9:28 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Police are present outside a house in Dewsbury, England, following raids on several homes in... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) Europe News - AP London Transport System Bombings &raquo; More News Feeds Elsewhere on the Web Blair backs Brown leadership bid Source: Aid workers kidnapped in Somalia are safe The Man Who Would Be Prime Minister Diverse views on news from the right, left, and center Copyright &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20070509/pl_nm/usa_congress_security_dc	Democrats, White House clash on homeland security - Yahoo! News Democrats, White House clash on homeland security Wed May 9, 7:26 PM ET WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Democratic-led U.S. House of Representatives defied a White House veto threat on Wednesday, voting to increase job protections at the Department of and provide the agency with &#36;2.1 billion more than President George W. Bush President George W. Bush On a vote of 296-126, the House topped the two-thirds majority that would be needed to override a presidential veto, and sent the measure to the Senate for consideration. "This bill sends a message to the president -- America&#39;s security cannot be done on the cheap," said Rep. Bennie Thompson ( ), a Mississippi Democrat and chief sponsor of the bill. Republicans voiced outrage that before approving the bill Democrats removed or weakened a dozen provisions which had been approved unanimously by the Homeland Security Committee in March. "They were good ideas, but we haven&#39;t had the benefit of giving these novel ideas the full consideration that they deserve," said Thompson, who chairs the committee. These provisions would toughen penalties for alien smuggling; prohibit homeland security grants to colleges that bar Coast Guard recruiters; provide funds to protect the food supply, and fund employee immigration checks at high-risk sites, such as airports and nuclear power plants. House Republicans leaders dubbed the measure, "Homeland Security bill, minus security." Yet 73 Republicans joined 223 Democrats in passing it. The bill would authorize &#36;39.8 billion for the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year 2008, &#36;2.1 billion more than requested by Bush. While designed to bolster emergency response efforts, the bill would give workers at the Department of Homeland Security the same protections as other federal employees. This, the administration contends, would reduce the flexibility it needs to assign workers to ever-changing threats. In addition, the bill would create what the White House called "burdensome and, in some cases, unworkable" acquisition policies. The administration also voiced concerns about a proposed Office of Health Affairs and new requirements for local, state and federal authorities to share information. Full Coverage: Terrorism & 9/11 Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media Reuters, 7 minutes ago Cuba says U.S. broke anti-terrorism treaties Reuters, 21 minutes ago Six Ordinary Lives That Took a Detour to a World of Terror at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Fort Dix suspects' lives gave few clues AP via Yahoo! News, May 08 Jury selected for Padilla trial at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), May 09 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Fort Dix at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Michael Chertoff: Yes, we're at war. No, it's not hype. at Minneapolis Star Tribune, Apr 25 Iraq lobbies Congress for U.S. support Vote postponed on immigration bill Judge OKs immunity deal in firings probe Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Giuliani reaffirms pro-choice stance Most Viewed - Politics Commander in Iraq asks for more troops House OKs Iraq funds in installments Democratic candidates woo firefighters John Edwards' big ideas costly Katrina dips in popularity as baby name Greeters Meet President Bush As He Arrives KDKA Pittsburgh - 42 minutes ago President Bush Visits St. Vincent College KDKA Pittsburgh - 55 minutes ago Cafferty: Dictating on Iraq? CNN - Fri May 11, 10:14 AM ET House votes on Iraq funding CNN - Fri May 11, 10:14 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. The Department of Homeland Security's National Operations Center in an undated file photo. The Democratic-led... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) Politics - U.S. House of Representatives &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: President George W. Bush Elsewhere on the Web Justice official who plead the Fifth gets immunity Senators who weakened drug bill got millions from industry SEND US YOUR PHOTOS! Following the presidential campaign? Submit pictures of candidates, supporters, and events to You Witness News. Featured IN YAHOO! NEWS Election coverage and analysis from Congressional Quarterly. &raquo; More from Congressional Quarterly All news on Chief Justice Roberts, Samuel Alito's nomination, and more. &raquo; All Court Coverage Yahoo! News Search Now Contains Blogs Find the latest posts about what's in the news. Copyright &copy; 2007 Reuters Limited. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Reuters content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20070509/pl_nm/usa_qaeda_dc	Doctor in NY terrorism case denies al Qaeda link - Yahoo! News Doctor in NY terrorism case denies al Qaeda link Wed May 9, 7:35 PM ET NEW YORK (Reuters) - A Florida doctor accused of swearing allegiance to al Qaeda and agreeing to treat wounded fighters testified on Wednesday that he supported neither the militant Islamist group nor its leader and was confused when he appeared to do so. Rafiq Sabir, 52, is on trial in federal court in Manhattan on charges of conspiring to provide material support to al Qaeda. He faces up to 30 years in prison if convicted. Sabir testified that he misunderstood a May 2005 meeting in New York at which he was secretly recorded pledging allegiance to al Qaeda and "Sheikh Osama" by an agent posing as a recruiter. "Osama is a common name," Sabir said. He said he did not think "Osama" referred to Osama bin Laden and did not realize he was pledging allegiance to al Qaeda. "There is no way I am going to align myself with al Qaeda; that is just not me," he said, before condemning "all the nasty things they have done around the world, killing people, innocent people, the atrocities." He said he also was confused when he promised to help "mujahideen" and said he thought that meant Iraqis, not al Qaeda fighters. Sabir also said that, as a doctor, he had an obligation to help people. "What was on my mind was the people of ," he said. "I had no idea he was talking about al Qaeda." Prosecutors say Sabir knew he was agreeing to help al Qaeda, as did three other defendants who have already pleaded guilty. In April, New York jazz musician Tarik Shah and Mahmud Faruq Brent, a Maryland cab driver, pleaded guilty to related charges, but have not been sentenced. A fourth defendant, Brooklyn bookstore owner Abdulrahman Farhane, pleaded guilty and last month was sentenced to 13 years in prison. Prosecutors were expected to cross-examine Sabir on Thursday. Iraq lobbies Congress for U.S. support Vote postponed on immigration bill Judge OKs immunity deal in firings probe Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Giuliani reaffirms pro-choice stance Most Viewed - Politics Commander in Iraq asks for more troops House OKs Iraq funds in installments Democratic candidates woo firefighters John Edwards' big ideas costly Katrina dips in popularity as baby name Greeters Meet President Bush As He Arrives KDKA Pittsburgh - 42 minutes ago President Bush Visits St. Vincent College KDKA Pittsburgh - 55 minutes ago Cafferty: Dictating on Iraq? CNN - Fri May 11, 10:14 AM ET House votes on Iraq funding CNN - Fri May 11, 10:14 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Physician Rafiq Sabir leaves the courthouse of Fort Pierce under a heavy rain, May 31,... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) Al-Qaida & Osama bin Laden &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: Elsewhere on the Web Justice official who plead the Fifth gets immunity Senators who weakened drug bill got millions from industry SEND US YOUR PHOTOS! Following the presidential campaign? Submit pictures of candidates, supporters, and events to You Witness News. Featured IN YAHOO! NEWS Election coverage and analysis from Congressional Quarterly. &raquo; More from Congressional Quarterly All news on Chief Justice Roberts, Samuel Alito's nomination, and more. &raquo; All Court Coverage Yahoo! News Search Now Contains Blogs Find the latest posts about what's in the news. Copyright &copy; 2007 Reuters Limited. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Reuters content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20070509/wl_nm/germany_terrorism_raid_dc	Germany launches anti-militant raids before summit - Yahoo! News Germany launches anti-militant raids before summit Wed May 9, 7:01 PM ET BERLIN (Reuters) - German police used water cannon to disperse protesters in the northern city of Hamburg on Wednesday following a series of raids on anti-globalization organizations ahead of a June G8 summit on the Baltic coast. Police said three officers were injured as demonstrators protesting against the raids threw bottles and stones outside a Hamburg cultural center. Arrests were made but a police spokeswoman could not confirm how many. Earlier, some 900 security officials searched 40 sites in Berlin, Brandenburg, Hamburg, Bremen, Schleswig-Holstein and Lower Saxony as part of two separate probes into anti-globalization militants, the federal prosecutor&#39;s office said in a statement. "We suspect those targeted, who belong to the militant extreme-left scene, of founding a terrorist organization or being members of such an organization, that is planning arson attacks and other actions to severely disrupt or prevent the early summer G8 summit in Heiligendamm from taking place," the prosecutor&#39;s office said. German Chancellor Angela Merkel will host the leaders of Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, Russia and the United States at the June 6-8 summit, which will focus on climate change, African poverty and economic cooperation. Separately on Wednesday, Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble announced a tightening of border controls ahead of the summit, action similar to that he took during last year&#39;s World Cup tournament to prevent an influx of soccer hooligans. "We are particularly focused on dangers arising from violent globalization opponents," the ministry said. The two investigations are aimed at 21 far-left activists whose names are known to German authorities, as well as other unidentified suspects. Police told Reuters no arrests had been made in Wednesday&#39;s raids. Prosecutors said they believed their targets were behind 20 or more arson attacks and other incidents in the Hamburg and Berlin area over the past two years. In December a car was set on fire in front of the home of Deputy Finance Minister Thomas Mirow and windows and walls of his house were splattered with paint. Anti-G8 group "Gipfelsoli" denounced the raids and accused authorities of a "wave of repression" to dismantle the movement&#39;s communication network. "In my opinion the goal of today&#39;s searches is to gain information about potential G8 summit actions and perhaps to scare those people who want to take part in the protests," Christoph Kliesing, a lawyer who represents left-wing groups, told a news conference in Berlin. Germany has not experienced major left-wing violence since the militant Red Army Faction (RAF), which waged a bloody two-decade long campaign of killings and kidnappings, announced in 1998 that it was disbanding. Authorities are taking no chances in their bid to ensure the summit goes as smoothly as the World Cup did. A 2.5-metre (8 foot) high steel fence, topped with razor wire, has been placed in a 14-km ring around Heiligendamm and police will control access through airport-style X-ray machines. Around 40 km down the coast from the Kempinski Hotel where the leaders will meet, a demonstration of up to 100,000 people is expected to take place the weekend before the event. (Additional reporting by Tom Armitage, Sabine Siebold and Markus Krah in Berlin, Philip Jarke in Hamburg) Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media Reuters, 13 minutes ago Deutsche Telekom employees dig in for Germany-wide strike AFP, 18 minutes ago Eye-Witness Account of Hitler's WWI Years Found at Spiegel Online, May 01 Germany Rediscovers the US as a Partner at Spiegel Online, Apr 30 Germans wary of security measures at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Germany launches obesity campaign at BBC, May 09 Spy who never came in from the cold at Toronto Star (reg req'd), Nov 14 The Abhorrent Exception to the Rule at Deutsche Welle, Oct 26 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint Sept. 11 suspect loses appeal in Germany U.S. confirms Afghan civilian casualties Most Viewed - World Iran, North Korea seek to boost cooperation Koreas adopt military agreement Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 CNN - 40 minutes ago Radler can&#39;t be trusted, Greenspan says CBC.ca - 2 hours, 52 minutes ago Politics and the Pope ABC News - Fri May 11, 9:34 AM ET Blair endorses Brown as successor CBC.ca - Fri May 11, 9:28 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) &raquo; More News Feeds Elsewhere on the Web Blair backs Brown leadership bid Source: Aid workers kidnapped in Somalia are safe The Man Who Would Be Prime Minister Diverse views on news from the right, left, and center Copyright &copy; 2007 Reuters Limited. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Reuters content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/afp/20070510/wl_afp/unworldsurvey	Large majorities favor giving UN more powers: global surveys - Yahoo! News Large majorities favor giving UN more powers: global surveys Thu May 10, 2:23 AM ET UNITED NATIONS (AFP) - Global surveys show large majorities favoring the UN Security Council using force to stop genocide, nuclear proliferation and terrorism, according to findings released Thursday. The findings were made public by two US research organizations, the Chicago Council on Global Affairs (CCGA) and WorldPublicOpinion.org, based on surveys conducted with polling agencies in 18 nations representing roughly 56 percent of the worlds population. "While leaders of nation states may be wary of giving the UN more power, it is clear that publics around the world are comfortable with the idea of a stronger UN," said Steven Kull, editor of Washington-based WorldPublicOpinion.Org. Large majorities in 12 of 14 countries polled agreed that the UN Security Council should have the right to use of force to "prevent severe human rights violations such as genocide," with the highest levels of support in France (85 percent), (83 percent) and the United States (83 percent). A majority in eight countries led by China (76 percent), the US (74 percent) and the Palestinians (69 percent) felt the Council has not just the right but also the "responsibility" to intervene militarily to protect people from severe human rights abuses. Large majorities averaging 71 percent and led by Israel (85 percent) and France (84 percent) also backed the use of force to "stop a country from supporting terrorist groups." Fifty-two percent on average agreed that military force should be allowed to prevent a country that does not have nuclear weapons from acquiring them, with highest support in Mexico (70 percent), Israel (62 percent) and the US (62 percent). Asked whether their own country should be "more willing to make decisions within the UN" when dealing with international issues even if this meant their country having to "go along with a policy that is not its first choice," 78 percent in China, 68 percent in France, 60 percent in the United States and surprisingly 54 percent in Israel agreed. "Having a standing UN peacekeeping force selected, trained and commanded by the " was backed by majorities in 12 of the 14 countries polled, 64 percent on average. The surveys were conducted from July 2006 to March this year in China, India, the United States, Indonesia, France, Russia, Thailand, Ukraine, Poland, , the Philippines, Australia, Argentina, Peru, Israel, Armenia and the Palestinian territories. In a separate review of US opinion, a July 2006 Chicago Council poll showed that 79 percent of American respondents endorsed the goal of "strengthening the UN." A majority of 66 percent in a December 2006 WPO/KN poll felt that the UN becoming significantly more powerful in world affairs "would be mostly positive." Several other polls in recent years indicated that a robust majority of Americans wants their government to work through the UN more than it does, even when reminded of the potential costs involved. A Chicago Council survey last July also found broad US public support for enlarging the UN Security Council. Sixty-six percent of Americans polled felt Japan should be admitted. 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint Sept. 11 suspect loses appeal in Germany U.S. confirms Afghan civilian casualties Most Viewed - World Iran, North Korea seek to boost cooperation Koreas adopt military agreement Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 CNN - 40 minutes ago Radler can&#39;t be trusted, Greenspan says CBC.ca - 2 hours, 52 minutes ago Politics and the Pope ABC News - Fri May 11, 9:34 AM ET Blair endorses Brown as successor CBC.ca - Fri May 11, 9:28 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Italian UN soldier holds a Lebanese boy at a social centre in the village of... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) Science - Nuclear Weapons Nuclear Power and Waste &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: Elsewhere on the Web Blair backs Brown leadership bid Source: Aid workers kidnapped in Somalia are safe The Man Who Would Be Prime Minister Diverse views on news from the right, left, and center . All rights reserved. The information contained in the AFP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of Agence France Presse.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20070511/ap_on_re_eu/britain_police_shooting	No disciplinary action for London police - Yahoo! News No disciplinary action for London police By ROBERT BARR, Associated Press Writer Fri May 11, 9:16 AM ET LONDON - Eleven police officers will not face disciplinary action in the death of a Brazilian man who was mistaken for a terrorist and gunned down in the subway days after the 2005 London transit bombings, a police commission said Friday. Jean Charles de Menezes, 27, was shot seven times in the head by Scotland Yard anti-terror officers as he sat on a London subway train July 22, 2005 &#151; two weeks after four suicide bombers killed themselves and 52 commuters on three subway trains and a bus, and a day after a failed set of attacks. Police acknowledged that they had wrongly identified de Menezes. Prosecutors decided last year they would not seek criminal charges against the officers involved. On Friday, the Independent Police Complaints Commission said the officers would also not face disciplinary action on the force. "The grief and anger of (de Menezes') family is entirely understandable and &#151; as I have been powerfully reminded &#151; remains unassuaged," said the commission's chairman, Nick Hardwick. "I would not do anything lightly that adds to that grief or anger." He said the decision not to discipline the officers was made after reviewing the evidence of the shooting, which he said pointed to the "challenges facing officers" in the days after the July 7 suicide bombings. De Menezes' family was outraged over the decision. "I cannot believe the police have been able to get away with this. It is disgraceful the IPCC can make such a decision &#151; they are letting the police get away with murder," said Patricia da Silva Armani, slain man's cousin. "First officials killed my cousin, then they lied about it and now the officers are walking away without any punishment," she said. A decision regarding four more senior officers involved in the shooting was deferred until the end of a legal case against the Metropolitan Police Department. The force faces charges under a health and safety law for allegedly endangering the public's safety during the shooting. The police force pleaded not guilty to the charges in September. If convicted, the department could face an unlimited fine. Full Coverage: London Bombings Met Police escape rap over Menezes death after bombings AFP, 2 hours, 2 minutes ago No disciplinary action for London police AP, Fri May 11, 9:16 AM ET 'All we want is justice for our son. That's all we have left' at The Guardian (UK)., Jul 16 It's time to stop grieving ..Jamie always wanted me to be happy at The Mirror (UK), Jul 07 Failures after 7/7 bombings exposed at The Independent (UK), Sep 22 Menezes inquest will be delayed at BBC, Sep 07 Our World: After Londonistan at Jerusalem Post, Jul 11 Home-grown extremists are the biggest threat to life and liberty at Daily Telegraph (UK), Jul 07 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint Sept. 11 suspect loses appeal in Germany U.S. confirms Afghan civilian casualties Most Viewed - World Iran, North Korea seek to boost cooperation Koreas adopt military agreement Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 CNN - 40 minutes ago Radler can&#39;t be trusted, Greenspan says CBC.ca - 2 hours, 52 minutes ago Politics and the Pope ABC News - Fri May 11, 9:34 AM ET Blair endorses Brown as successor CBC.ca - Fri May 11, 9:28 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) Europe News - AP London Transport System Bombings &raquo; More News Feeds Elsewhere on the Web Blair backs Brown leadership bid Source: Aid workers kidnapped in Somalia are safe The Man Who Would Be Prime Minister Diverse views on news from the right, left, and center Copyright &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20070510/ap_on_re_eu/britain_terror_arrests	British police make 4 terror arrests - Yahoo! News British police make 4 terror arrests Thu May 10, 2:37 AM ET LONDON - British police arrested four people Wednesday in connection with the suicide bombings that killed 52 bus and subway passengers in London in 2005. Police refused to confirm reports that the wife of one of the bombers was detained. They said a woman and two men were arrested in West Yorkshire and a 22-year-old man was arrested in Birmingham. All were arrested on suspicion of the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism and were being taken to London for interrogation, police said. Searches were under way at two apartments in Birmingham, and at five addresses in West Yorkshire &#151; two houses in Dewsbury, two houses in the Beeston neighborhood of Leeds and one house in Batley, police said. Mohammed Sidique Khan, identified as one of the four London bombers, was a resident of Dewsbury and had grown up in Beeston. The British Broadcasting Corp. report that Khan's wife, Hasina Patel, 29, was among those arrested. "We never discuss the identity of people who have been arrested," a police spokeswoman said on condition of anonymity in line with force policy. The bombers struck on three subway trains and a double-decker bus on July 7, 2005 &#151; the worst terrorist attack in British history. In March, police arrested three people, all from the same West Yorkshire area as three of the four suicide bombers. They were charged on April 5 with conspiring with the attackers. Those charged were Mohammed Shakil, of Beeston; Sadeer Saleem, of Beeston; and Waheed Ali, who recently lived in London but was formerly from Beeston. London's Metropolitan Police said they were continuing a "painstaking investigation with a substantial amount of information being analyzed and investigated." "As we have said previously, we are determined to follow the evidence wherever it takes us to identify any other person who may have been involved, in any way, in the terrorist attacks," the department said. "We need to know who else, apart from the bombers, knew what they were planning. Did anyone encourage them? Did anyone help them with money, or accommodation?" Full Coverage: Terrorism & 9/11 Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media Reuters, 10 minutes ago Cuba says U.S. broke anti-terrorism treaties Reuters, 25 minutes ago Six Ordinary Lives That Took a Detour to a World of Terror at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Fort Dix suspects' lives gave few clues AP via Yahoo! News, May 08 Jury selected for Padilla trial at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), May 09 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Fort Dix at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Michael Chertoff: Yes, we're at war. No, it's not hype. at Minneapolis Star Tribune, Apr 25 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint Sept. 11 suspect loses appeal in Germany U.S. confirms Afghan civilian casualties Most Viewed - World Iran, North Korea seek to boost cooperation Koreas adopt military agreement Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 CNN - 40 minutes ago Radler can&#39;t be trusted, Greenspan says CBC.ca - 2 hours, 52 minutes ago Politics and the Pope ABC News - Fri May 11, 9:34 AM ET Blair endorses Brown as successor CBC.ca - Fri May 11, 9:28 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Police are present outside a house in Dewsbury, England, following raids on several homes in... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) Europe News - AP London Transport System Bombings &raquo; More News Feeds Elsewhere on the Web Blair backs Brown leadership bid Source: Aid workers kidnapped in Somalia are safe The Man Who Would Be Prime Minister Diverse views on news from the right, left, and center Copyright &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20070509/pl_nm/usa_congress_security_dc	Democrats, White House clash on homeland security - Yahoo! News Democrats, White House clash on homeland security Wed May 9, 7:26 PM ET WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Democratic-led U.S. House of Representatives defied a White House veto threat on Wednesday, voting to increase job protections at the Department of and provide the agency with &#36;2.1 billion more than President George W. Bush President George W. Bush On a vote of 296-126, the House topped the two-thirds majority that would be needed to override a presidential veto, and sent the measure to the Senate for consideration. "This bill sends a message to the president -- America&#39;s security cannot be done on the cheap," said Rep. Bennie Thompson ( ), a Mississippi Democrat and chief sponsor of the bill. Republicans voiced outrage that before approving the bill Democrats removed or weakened a dozen provisions which had been approved unanimously by the Homeland Security Committee in March. "They were good ideas, but we haven&#39;t had the benefit of giving these novel ideas the full consideration that they deserve," said Thompson, who chairs the committee. These provisions would toughen penalties for alien smuggling; prohibit homeland security grants to colleges that bar Coast Guard recruiters; provide funds to protect the food supply, and fund employee immigration checks at high-risk sites, such as airports and nuclear power plants. House Republicans leaders dubbed the measure, "Homeland Security bill, minus security." Yet 73 Republicans joined 223 Democrats in passing it. The bill would authorize &#36;39.8 billion for the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year 2008, &#36;2.1 billion more than requested by Bush. While designed to bolster emergency response efforts, the bill would give workers at the Department of Homeland Security the same protections as other federal employees. This, the administration contends, would reduce the flexibility it needs to assign workers to ever-changing threats. In addition, the bill would create what the White House called "burdensome and, in some cases, unworkable" acquisition policies. The administration also voiced concerns about a proposed Office of Health Affairs and new requirements for local, state and federal authorities to share information. Full Coverage: Terrorism & 9/11 Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media Reuters, 7 minutes ago Cuba says U.S. broke anti-terrorism treaties Reuters, 21 minutes ago Six Ordinary Lives That Took a Detour to a World of Terror at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Fort Dix suspects' lives gave few clues AP via Yahoo! News, May 08 Jury selected for Padilla trial at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), May 09 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Fort Dix at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Michael Chertoff: Yes, we're at war. No, it's not hype. at Minneapolis Star Tribune, Apr 25 Iraq lobbies Congress for U.S. support Vote postponed on immigration bill Judge OKs immunity deal in firings probe Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Giuliani reaffirms pro-choice stance Most Viewed - Politics Commander in Iraq asks for more troops House OKs Iraq funds in installments Democratic candidates woo firefighters John Edwards' big ideas costly Katrina dips in popularity as baby name Greeters Meet President Bush As He Arrives KDKA Pittsburgh - 42 minutes ago President Bush Visits St. Vincent College KDKA Pittsburgh - 55 minutes ago Cafferty: Dictating on Iraq? CNN - Fri May 11, 10:14 AM ET House votes on Iraq funding CNN - Fri May 11, 10:14 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. The Department of Homeland Security's National Operations Center in an undated file photo. The Democratic-led... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) Politics - U.S. House of Representatives &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: President George W. Bush Elsewhere on the Web Justice official who plead the Fifth gets immunity Senators who weakened drug bill got millions from industry SEND US YOUR PHOTOS! Following the presidential campaign? Submit pictures of candidates, supporters, and events to You Witness News. Featured IN YAHOO! NEWS Election coverage and analysis from Congressional Quarterly. &raquo; More from Congressional Quarterly All news on Chief Justice Roberts, Samuel Alito's nomination, and more. &raquo; All Court Coverage Yahoo! News Search Now Contains Blogs Find the latest posts about what's in the news. Copyright &copy; 2007 Reuters Limited. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Reuters content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/afp/20070510/pl_afp/ussyriairaqlebanon	Syrian action over Iraq, terror key to better US ties: Rice - Yahoo! News Syrian action over Iraq, terror key to better US ties: Rice Thu May 10, 11:27 AM ET WASHINGTON (AFP) - US Secretary of State Thursday to close its border to foreign fighters and to crack down on Palestinian extremists if it wants to thaw frosty ties with Washington. Addressing members of Congress after she held an unprecedented meeting with her Syrian counterpart Walid Muallem last week, Rice said any improvement to US-Syria relations hinged on progress on those fronts. "It was not a conversation about US-Syria relations but about what Syria needs to do to stem the tide of foreign fighters" among other issues, she told a Senate foreign relations hearing. "Syria continues to be a major funder of terrorism, a major harborer of those elements of the Palestinian political elite for instance who are opposed to a two-state solution, who are the ones who continue to perpetrate violence in the Palestinian territories and in The secretary of state said that she told Muallem during their talks last Thursday, held on the sidelines of a conference on Iraq in the Egyptian resort of Sharm El-Sheikh, "that we should talk about Iraq." "But US-Syria relations would depend on a great deal more." Washington accuses Damascus of letting anti-US insurgents cross from Syria to Iraq, and of supporting terrorist groups in Lebanon and in the Palestinian territories. Syria meanwhile Thursday ruled out any cooperation with an international court to try suspects for the 2005 murder of former Lebanese premier Rafiq Hariri if it threatens its sovereignty. Syria, which has been implicated in a UN probe over the Hariri assassination despite its repeated denials, is opposed to plans for the court which have been endorsed by the UN Security Council. "Syria needs to allow that tribunal to go forward because people need to answer to what happened to former prime minister Hariri," Rice said. Iraq lobbies Congress for U.S. support Vote postponed on immigration bill Judge OKs immunity deal in firings probe Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Giuliani reaffirms pro-choice stance Most Viewed - Politics Commander in Iraq asks for more troops House OKs Iraq funds in installments Democratic candidates woo firefighters John Edwards' big ideas costly Katrina dips in popularity as baby name Greeters Meet President Bush As He Arrives KDKA Pittsburgh - 42 minutes ago President Bush Visits St. Vincent College KDKA Pittsburgh - 55 minutes ago Cafferty: Dictating on Iraq? CNN - Fri May 11, 10:14 AM ET House votes on Iraq funding CNN - Fri May 11, 10:14 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, seen here 04 May 2007, pushed Syria Thursday to close... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: Elsewhere on the Web Justice official who plead the Fifth gets immunity Senators who weakened drug bill got millions from industry SEND US YOUR PHOTOS! Following the presidential campaign? Submit pictures of candidates, supporters, and events to You Witness News. Featured IN YAHOO! NEWS Election coverage and analysis from Congressional Quarterly. &raquo; More from Congressional Quarterly All news on Chief Justice Roberts, Samuel Alito's nomination, and more. &raquo; All Court Coverage Yahoo! News Search Now Contains Blogs Find the latest posts about what's in the news. . All rights reserved. The information contained in the AFP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of Agence France Presse.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20070511/ts_nm/security_germany_warning_dc	Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media - Yahoo! News Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. and German officials say they believed terrorists were planning an attack on U.S. military personnel or tourists in Germany, ABC News reported on its Web site on Friday. "The information behind the threat is very real," a senior U.S. official told ABC News. German Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told ABC: "The danger level is high. We are part of the global threat by Islamist terrorism." U.S. air marshals are providing additional protection of flights between Germany and the United States, law enforcement officials told ABCNews.com. The report, quoting U.S. and German law enforcement officials, said Patch Barracks, headquarters to the U.S. military&#39;s European Command, could be a target following reports that suspected terrorists had conducted surveillance at the facility. Hundreds flee S. Calif. island wildfire Iraq lobbies Congress for U.S. support Fort Dix suspects all are denied bail Va. Tech students prepare to graduate Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Most Viewed: Top Stories Kidnapped girl&#39;s dad says no "stone unturned" in hunt House passes Iraq funds bill Bush would veto Cheney warns Iran, assures allies on Gulf visit Rice confronts assertive Russia with less leverage Section of China&#39;s Great Wall discovered Beckham pleads for missing toddler&#39;s return AP - 1 hour, 50 minutes ago Bush Ready to Toss War Funding Bill ABC News - Fri May 11, 8:03 AM ET New Study on Warming ABC News - Fri May 11, 8:33 AM ET ABC News - Fri May 11, 8:02 AM ET German Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble addresses a news conference in Berlin March 28, 2007. U.S.... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) &raquo; More News Feeds Elsewhere on the Web U.S. general wants more troops for bloody Iraq province The OxyContin &#39;Conspiracy&#39; -- Is $700 Million Enough? Invasive cargo spawns calls for regulations Kevin Sites in the Hot Zone An Afghan child bride gets help from Hot Zone readers. Copyright &copy; 2007 Reuters Limited. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Reuters content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20070511/ap_on_re_us/fort_dix_plot	Fort Dix suspects all are denied bail - Yahoo! News Fort Dix suspects all are denied bail By GEOFF MULVIHILL, Associated press Writer CAMDEN, N.J. - Six Muslim men suspected of plotting to massacre U.S. soldiers at Fort Dix were ordered held without bail Friday. Prosecutors argued that the men, all born outside the United States, pose a flight risk. They are being held at a federal detention center in Philadelphia. The men were arrested Monday night during what the said was an attempt to buy AK-47 machine guns, M-16s and other weapons. They targeted Fort Dix, a post 25 miles east of Philadelphia that is used primarily to train reservists, partly because one of them had delivered pizzas there and was familiar with the base, according to court filings. Their objective was to kill "as many American soldiers as possible," the documents said. The men have lived in and around Philadelphia for years, worshipped at moderate mosques and worked blue-collar jobs installing roofs, driving a cab, delivering pizzas and baking bread. Four are ethnic Albanians from the former Yugoslavia, one is from Jordan and one is from Turkey. As they were led into the courtroom, each of the suspects smiled to relatives and friends, many of whom wept and blew kisses to them. Only one of the men, Mohamad Ibrahim Shnewer, 22, asked to be released on bail, and friends and relatives offered to post properties they owned as collateral. Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Stigall argued against letting Shnewer be released to the custody of his parents while awaiting trial. He said many of the illegal actions that the government alleges Shnewer committed happened or were planned at his parents' house. Defense lawyers for some of the men said they are considering attacking the prosecution's reliance on two paid informants who infiltrated the group more than a year ago and recorded conversations with the defendants. Authorities said they first learned about the men in January 2006 after a tip from a clerk at a Mount Laurel electronics store. The clerk called police because a home video the men wanted transferred to a DVD looked like it might have terrorist links, U.S. Attorney Christopher J. Christie said. Earlier this year, authorities said, the men took a training trip to the Pocono Mountains in Pennsylvania, where they fired weapons and played paintball to prepare for an attack. Five of the men &#151; Shnewer; Serdar Tatar, 23; Dritan "Anthony" or "Tony" Duka, 28; Shain Duka, 26; and Eljvir "Elvis" Duka, 23 &#151; are charged with conspiring to kill uniformed military personnel, an offense punishable by life in prison. Agron Abdullahu, 24, is charged with helping illegal immigrants obtain weapons. He could face 10 years in prison if convicted. Abdullahu, who faces the least serious charges of the six, will have another bail hearing next Thursday. Full Coverage: Terrorism & 9/11 Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media Reuters, 8 minutes ago Cuba says U.S. broke anti-terrorism treaties Reuters, 23 minutes ago Six Ordinary Lives That Took a Detour to a World of Terror at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Fort Dix suspects' lives gave few clues AP via Yahoo! News, May 08 Jury selected for Padilla trial at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), May 09 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Fort Dix at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Michael Chertoff: Yes, we're at war. No, it's not hype. at Minneapolis Star Tribune, Apr 25 Hundreds flee S. Calif. island wildfire Va. Tech students prepare to graduate Men apologize for cartoon stunt 2 detained in Las Vegas bombing Katrina dips in popularity as baby name Most Viewed - U.S. Hundreds flee S. Calif. island wildfire XM shock jocks apologize for sex comment U.S. divorce rate lowest since 1970 Men apologize for cartoon stunt Va. Tech students prepare to graduate Moms on Being Mothers ABC News - 16 minutes ago CAUGHT: 91-Year-Old Viciously Beaten on Tape ABC News - 17 minutes ago Oil Spill in Georgia ABC News - 17 minutes ago Weather aids fire fight CNN - 40 minutes ago Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. A transport van with blacked out windows is directed into a garage at the Mitchell... 6 arrested in Fort Dix attack plot Suspects In Fort Dix Terror Plot Held Without Bail Brandy Bell reports six suspects in an alleged plot to kill soldiers at Fort Dix were ordered held without bail during a federal court hearing. &raquo; More CBS 3 Philadelphia video Fort Dix Terror Suspects Face Federal Judge A bail hearing was scheduled for Friday morning for the six men who were plotting to kill soldiers at Fort Dix. Prosecutors say the men are flight risks because they were all born outside the U.S. CBS 2&#39;s Magee Hickey reports. &raquo; More CBS 2 New York video &raquo; Show all news video Get an alert when there are new stories about: Elsewhere on the Web &#39;Fort Dix Six&#39; ordered held without bail EXCLUSIVE: George Stephanopoulos Interviews Presidential Hopeful Barack Obama Invasive cargo spawns calls for regulations Yahoo! News "60 Minutes" He's a human calculator who sees numbers as shapes and colors. Copyright &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press.
http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/	Media RSS Module - RSS 2.0 Module "Media RSS" Specification Version 1.1.1 An RSS module that supplements the 02/21/2005 - Major consolidation of all requested changes: [1.0.0] Added additional type of element to distinguish content of an adult nature. Modified to have a attribute for better module consistency. to allow specifying categorization scheme. for a human readable label. element for media binary hashing. to distinguish formatting of text. Improved descriptions of various elements and attributes. 08/22/2005 - Improved global syndication capabilities: [1.1.0] attributes to media:text and media:content. to give more flexibility to represent things other than people or companies. to explicitly determine what type of media is expressed. Added a "Best Practices" section to encourage use of the Feed History module, and Dublin Core's expiration capability. Add time code information to 10/22/2005 - Minor improvements: [1.1.1] Added capability for elements to appear at the to allow explicit global relationships to be expressed. The namespace for Media RSS is defined to be: "Media RSS" is a new RSS module that supplements the enclosure capabilities of RSS 2.0. RSS enclosures are already being used to syndicate audio files and images. Media RSS extends enclosures to handle other media types, such as short films or TV, as well as provide additional metadata with the media. Media RSS enables content publishers and bloggers to syndicate multimedia content such as TV and video clips, movies, images, and audio. is a sub-element of . It allows grouping of elements that are effectively the same content, yet different representations. For instance: the same song recorded in both the WAV and MP3 format. It's an optional element that must only be used for this purpose. is a sub-element of either . Media objects that are not the same content should not be included in the same element. The sequence of these items implies the order of presentation. While many of the attributes appear to be audio/video specific, this element can be used to publish any type of media. It contains 14 attributes, most of which are optional. should specify the direct url to the media object. If not included, a element must be specified. is the number of bytes of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the standard MIME type of the object. It is an optional attribute. is the type of object (image | audio | video | document | executable). While this attribute can at times seem redundant if is supplied, it is included because it simplifies decision making on the reader side, as well as flushes out any ambiguities between MIME type and object type. It is an optional attribute. determines if this is the default object that should be used for the . There should only be one default object per . It is an optional attribute. determines if the object is a sample or the full version of the object, or even if it is a continuous stream (sample | full | nonstop). Default value is 'full'. It is an optional attribute. is the kilobits per second rate of media. It is an optional attribute. is the number of frames per second for the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of samples per second taken to create the media object. It is expressed in thousands of samples per second (kHz). It is an optional attribute. is number of audio channels in the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of seconds the media object plays. It is an optional attribute. is the height of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. These optional attributes, along with the optional elements below, contain the primary metadata entries needed to index and organize media content. Additional supported attributes for describing images, audio, and video may be added in future revisions of this document. have no limitations on the number of times they can appear, the general nature of RSS should be preserved: an represents a "story". Simply stated, this is similar to the blog style of syndication. However, if one is using this module to strictly publish media, there should be one element for each media object/group. This is to allow for proper attribution for the origination of the media content through the element. It also allows the full benefit of the other RSS elements to be realized. The following elements are optional and may appear as sub-elements of When an element appears at a shallow level, such as , it means that the element should be applied to every media object within its scope. Duplicated elements appearing at deeper levels of the document tree have higher priority over other levels. For example, level elements are favored over level elements. The priority level is listed from strongest to weakest: [NOTE: This is deprecated, and has been replaced with the more flexible This allows the permissible audience to be declared. If this element is not included, it assumes that no restrictions are necessary. It has one optional attribute. r (cz 1 lz 1 nz 1 oz 1 vz 1) is the URI that identifies the rating scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is urn:simple (adult | nonadult). The title of the particular media object. It has 1 optional attribute. The Judy's - The Moo Song specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Short description describing the media object typically a sentence in length. It has 1 optional attribute. This was some really bizarre band I listened to as a young lad. specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Highly relevant keywords describing the media object with typically a maximum of ten words. The keywords and phrases should be comma delimited. kitty, cat, big dog, yarn, fluffy Allows particular images to be used as representative images for the media object. If multiple thumbnails are included, and time coding is not at play, it is assumed that the images are in order of importance. It has 1 required attribute and 3 optional attributes. specifies the url of the thumbnail. It is a required attribute. specifies the height of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the width of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the time offset in relation to the media object. Typically this is used when creating multiple keyframes within a single video. The format for this attribute should be in the DSM-CC's Normal Play Time (NTP) as used in RTSP [ RFC 2326 3.6 Normal Play Time ]. It is an optional attribute. NTP has a second or subsecond resolution. It is specified as H:M:S.h (npt-hhmmss) or S.h (npt-sec), where H=hours, M=minutes, S=second and h=fractions of a second. A possible alternative to NTP would be SMPTE. It is believed that NTP is simpler and easier to use. Allows a taxonomy to be set that gives an indication of the type of media content, and its particular contents. It has 2 optional attributes. is the URI that identifies the categorization scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/category_schema'. is the human readable label that can be displayed in end user applications. It is an optional attribute. This is the hash of the binary media file. It can appear multiple times as long as each instance is a different . It has 1 optional attribute. indicates the algorithm used to create the hash. Possible values are 'md5' and 'sha-1'. Default value is 'md5'. It is an optional attribute. Allows the media object to be accessed through a web browser media player console. This element is required only if a direct media attribute is not specified in the element. It has 1 required attribute, and 2 optional attributes. is the url of the player console that plays the media. It is a required attribute. is the height of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. Notable entity and the contribution to the creation of the media object. Current entities can include people, companies, locations, etc. Specific entities can have multiple roles, and several entities can have the same role. These should appear as distinct elements. It has 2 optional attributes. role specifies the role the entity played. Must be lowercase. It is an optional attribute. is the URI that identifies the role scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'urn:ebu'. See: European Broadcasting Union Role Codes. actor anchor person author choreographer composer conductor director editor graphic designer grip illustrator lyricist music arranger music group musician orchestra performer photographer producer reporter vocalist European Broadcasting Union Role Codes Copyright information for media object. It has 1 optional attribute. is the url for a terms of use page or additional copyright information. If the media is operating under a Creative Commons license, the Creative Commons module should be used instead. It is an optional attribute. Allows the inclusion of a text transcript, closed captioning, or lyrics of the media content. Many of these elements are permitted to provide a time series of text. In such cases, it is encouraged, but not required, that the elements be grouped by language and appear in time sequence order based on the time. Elements can have overlapping times. It has 4 optional attributes. Oh, say, can you see By the dawn's early light specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the xml:lang attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. specifies the start time offset that the text starts being relevant to the media object. An example of this would be for closed captioning. It uses the NTP time code format (see: the time attribute used in ). It is an optional attribute. specifies the end time that the text is relevant. If this attribute is not provided, and a time is used, it is expected that the end time is either the end of the clip or the start of the next Allows restrictions to be placed on the aggregator rendering the media in the feed. Currently, restrictions are based on distributor (uri) and country codes. This element is purely informational and no obligation can be assumed or implied. Only one element of the same can be applied to a media object - all others will be ignored. Entities in this element should be space separated. To allow the producer to explicitly declare his/her intentions, two literals are reserved: 'all', 'none'. These literals can only be used once. This element has 1 required attribute, and 1 optional attribute (with strict requirements for its exclusion). indicates the type of relationship that the restriction represents (allow | deny). In the example above, the media object should only be syndicated in Australia and the United States. It is a required attribute. If the "allow" element is empty and the type is relationship is "allow", it is assumed that the empty list means "allow nobody" and the media should not be syndicated. A more explicit method would be: specifies the type of restriction (country | uri) that the media can be syndicated. It is an optional attribute; however can only be excluded when using one of the literal values "all" or "none". "country" allows restrictions to be placed based on country code. [ "uri" allows restrictions based on URI. Examples: urn:apple, http://images.google.com, urn:yahoo, etc. The following are encouraged "best practices" when using Media RSS: If your feed is not an "incremental" in the traditional RSS sense, but rather an entire snapshot of all media available, please take note of the element. This element when set to "false" correctly informs the RSS reader that the current feed replaces the previously fetched feed. If you prefer to syndicate media more along the lines of traditional RSS, this specification also allows you to daisy chain multiple feeds together to compose a history of media that is available on your site. Expirations Using Dublin Core To the best of your ability, media that is scheduled to expire after a given time should be duly noted through Dublin Core's A recently created movie, using the RSS 2.0 element and without the use of the Media RSS module. A movie review with a trailer, using a Creative Commons license. My Movie Review Site Movie Title: Is this a good movie? A music video with a link to a player window, and additional metadata about the video, including expiration date. Discussions of great videos The latest video from an artist Oh, say, can you see, by the dawn's early light Several different songs that relate to the same topic. Discussion on different songs These songs make me think about blah Same song with multiple files at different bitrates and encodings. (Bittorrent example as well) Songs galore at different bitrates Cool song by an artist Thank you to everyone who has contributed to this specification, and to all those that sent suggestions and corrections. The Yahoo! Group " " has been instrumental in helping transform the initial Media RSS proposal into a working specification. While there have been many helpful individuals from this community, special thanks go to Danny Ayers, Marc Canter, Lucas Gonze, Vadim Zaliva, Greg Smith, Robert Sayre, Suzan Foster, Erwin van Hunen, Greg Gershman, Jennifer Kolar, Bill Kearney, and Andreas Haugstrup Pedersen. On the Yahoo! team: David Hall, John Thrall, Eckart Walther, Jeremy Zawodny, Andy Volk, and Bradley Horowitz. On the Google team: David Marwood and Peter Chane. Copyright &copy; 2007 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20070510/ap_on_re_la_am_ca/guantanamo_charges	U.S. charges suspected bin Laden driver - Yahoo! News U.S. charges suspected bin Laden driver Thu May 10, 7:53 PM ET SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico - The United States filed charges of conspiracy and providing support for terrorism Thursday against a Guantanamo detainee accused of working as a driver and bodyguard for Salim Ahmed Hamdan is the third Guantanamo detainee to be charged under a new set of rules signed last year by after the Supreme Court rejected the previous system. Hamdan, who is from Yemen, has been detained at Guantanamo since May 2002. It was his legal challenge that forced the Bush administration and Congress to draft new rules for the military trials, known as commissions, for the men held at the Guantanamo Bay detention center in eastern Cuba. In the charging documents, the military said Hamdan conspired with bin Laden and other al-Qaida leaders in the bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, the attack on the in 2000, and the terrorist attacks in the United States on Sept. 11, 2001. In addition to working as bin Laden's driver and bodyguard, the U.S. said Hamdan transported and delivered weapons to al-Qaida and its associates and trained at terrorist camps. The documents do not disclose the potential sentence Hamdan could receive in a military trial, but they specify that he would not be subject to the death penalty. U.S. officials have previously said they expect to charge 60 to 80 of the Guantanamo detainees and may seek the death penalty in some cases. Full Coverage: Guantanamo Detainees Bush's privacy board not doing its job? AP, Thu May 10, 8:37 PM ET Reuters, Thu May 10, 8:33 PM ET at The Economist, Mar 30 David Hicks: A young man in search of a cause at International Herald Tribune, Mar 28 Supreme Court declines to enter fray on detainee trials at Christian Science Monitor, May 01 US court rejects Guantanamo case at BBC, Apr 30 at Boston Globe, May 03 Gitmo: still a 'legal black hole' at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), May 01 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint Sept. 11 suspect loses appeal in Germany U.S. confirms Afghan civilian casualties Most Viewed - World Iran, North Korea seek to boost cooperation Koreas adopt military agreement Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 CNN - 40 minutes ago Radler can&#39;t be trusted, Greenspan says CBC.ca - 2 hours, 52 minutes ago Politics and the Pope ABC News - Fri May 11, 9:34 AM ET Blair endorses Brown as successor CBC.ca - Fri May 11, 9:28 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. In this courtroom illustration, Salim Ahmed Hamdan (L) appears with appointed council Lieutenant Commander Charles... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) World - AP Latin America Al-Qaida & Osama bin Laden &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: Elsewhere on the Web Blair backs Brown leadership bid Source: Aid workers kidnapped in Somalia are safe The Man Who Would Be Prime Minister Diverse views on news from the right, left, and center Copyright &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20070510/ap_on_go_ca_st_pe/security_grants	White House doles out millions in grants - Yahoo! News White House doles out millions in grants By DEVLIN BARRETT, Associated Press Writer Thu May 10, 5:37 PM ET WASHINGTON - The Bush administration on Thursday divided $445 million in grants to protect commuters, shipping ports, and transit systems from terrorist attacks &#151; a 10 percent increase from last year. devoted most of the money to seaports and mass transit: $202 million for ports, $155 million in grants to bus and rail lines, and $48.5 million for critical infrastructure around the United States. In the annual up-and-down of anti-terror grants to major ports, New York and San Francisco did well, while Louisiana and Texas suffered setbacks. "In many places there will be ebbs and flows in the funding," said DHS Deputy Secretary Michael Jackson. Smaller amounts were distributed to protect the nation's passenger rail carrier Amtrak, and bus services like Greyhound and Trailways, as well as trucking and passenger ferry services. Grant awards are closely scrutinized by city and state officials who measure their funding against previous years &#151; though the bigger fight is usually over which cities are judged at highest risk of attack, and how much money they each get. The exact grant amounts are based on applications from cities, and some, like Cleveland, didn't even bother to ask for port security funds, officials said. "We gave them every chance, we mailed them the packet," said Jackson, who called the money distribution process "a combination of art and science." New York City, which has complained of being short changed for years saying grants are spread around too widely, was a big recipient of transit and port aid again this year. The city and surrounding areas in New Jersey and Connecticut receiving about $93 million, compared to $79.5 million in 2006, and $50 million in 2005. Sen. Charles Schumer ( ), D-N.Y. called the increase to New York "a welcome sign that DHS may now realize that the terrorists' number one target should be number one on the list for funding." Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger, D-Md., criticized the distribution for its 60 percent cut in funding to the Port of Baltimore. Louisiana saw nearly half of its port money from the previous year evaporate, although the New Orleans port saw its funding jump from $737,000 to $11 million. Baton Rouge had an 86 percent drop from $9 million to $1.6 million, while South Louisiana's port dollars went from $11 million to $2 million. Jackson said the $23.7 million total funding for Louisiana in 2006 was an anomaly and that the revised amount this year more accurately reflected what the state has been receiving annually over the last five years. Also facing a one-year downturn were the Texas ports of Beaumont and Port Arthur. Their funding dropped more than 50 percent, from nearly $11 million to $5.3 million. The money tide rose dramatically for port facilities in the San Francisco Bay area, however, leaping from $1.2 million in 2006 to $14.2 million this year. Department of Homeland Security: Full Coverage: Terrorism & 9/11 Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media Reuters, 12 minutes ago Cuba says U.S. broke anti-terrorism treaties Reuters, 27 minutes ago Six Ordinary Lives That Took a Detour to a World of Terror at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Fort Dix suspects' lives gave few clues AP via Yahoo! News, May 08 Jury selected for Padilla trial at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), May 09 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Fort Dix at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Michael Chertoff: Yes, we're at war. No, it's not hype. at Minneapolis Star Tribune, Apr 25 Iraq lobbies Congress for U.S. support Vote postponed on immigration bill Judge OKs immunity deal in firings probe Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Giuliani reaffirms pro-choice stance Most Viewed - Politics Commander in Iraq asks for more troops House OKs Iraq funds in installments Democratic candidates woo firefighters John Edwards' big ideas costly Katrina dips in popularity as baby name Greeters Meet President Bush As He Arrives KDKA Pittsburgh - 43 minutes ago President Bush Visits St. Vincent College KDKA Pittsburgh - 56 minutes ago Cafferty: Dictating on Iraq? CNN - Fri May 11, 10:14 AM ET House votes on Iraq funding CNN - Fri May 11, 10:14 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) White House News - AP &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: Elsewhere on the Web Justice official who plead the Fifth gets immunity Senators who weakened drug bill got millions from industry SEND US YOUR PHOTOS! Following the presidential campaign? Submit pictures of candidates, supporters, and events to You Witness News. Featured IN YAHOO! NEWS Election coverage and analysis from Congressional Quarterly. &raquo; More from Congressional Quarterly All news on Chief Justice Roberts, Samuel Alito's nomination, and more. &raquo; All Court Coverage Yahoo! News Search Now Contains Blogs Find the latest posts about what's in the news. Copyright &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20070510/ap_on_re_us/national_guard_stretched_thin	Govs worry about depleted National Guard - Yahoo! News Govs worry about depleted National Guard By MITCH STACY, Associated Press Writer Thu May 10, 7:41 PM ET TAMPA, Fla. - With repeated deployments to leaving state National Guards without nearly half of their required equipment, some governors are loudly questioning whether they will be able to handle the next hurricane, wildfire or terrorist attack at home. "We are not going to be able to continue to rely on the National Guard as a full-time operational force" overseas if the Guardsmen are to do their job at home, North Carolina Gov. Mike Easley said. Easley said his state has about half the equipment it needs and could probably respond adequately to a hurricane, but "a pandemic or something like that may be a different question." The widespread problem of permanently losing National Guard equipment to the war was pushed to the forefront this week when Kansas Gov. Kathleen Sebelius complained that shortages of equipment and well-trained personnel slowed Guard response to the killer tornadoes that ravaged her state. "A lot of equipment has gone to Iraq and the equipment doesn't come back when the troops come back," California Gov. The California National Guard is missing 700 Humvees and over 1,100 high-water vehicles &#151; nearly half the number it's supposed to have, according to documents reviewed by The AP. The Guard also has just 1,301 M4 machine guns, or less than a third of its required stockpile. Arkansas Gov. Mike Beebe acknowledged that his state, with much of its National Guard equipment in Iraq, could have similar problems as Kansas if disaster struck. Beebe said that much of the Arkansas Guard's engineering unit is deployed in Iraq, and that the state's Blackhawk helicopters also are overseas. "It would be nice if the federal government would provide (soldiers in Iraq) with sufficient materials so that the states would still have sufficient materials for their people in case of a crisis," Beebe said, National Guard troops take heavy equipment, such as Humvees, to Iraq where they are specially outfitted for combat and then left behind. Some states reported the equipment was eventually replaced or returned, but severely worn. Many are still waiting. Connecticut, for example, is missing more than 200 high-mobility multipurpose vehicles, a Chinook CH-47D cargo helicopter, 1,500 pairs of night-vision goggles and 21 large support vehicles such as tankers, wreckers and heavy cargo vehicles. officials have said that equipment sharing agreements among the states would ensure there would be adequate hardware available to handle any disaster. Such sharing is common place &#151; 48 states that belong to an emergency assistance compact, an agreement to help each other in emergencies. The Pentagon acknowledged this week that Army National Guard units had only 56 percent of their required equipment, the lowest levels since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said the Bush administration is asking Congress for $22 billion for the Army National Guard over the next five years, which would take Guard equipment levels up to 76 percent. Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley's office released a memo this week saying that the state's National Guard is facing "critical equipment shortfalls to meet its domestic homeland security mission." The report found "serious potential deficiencies in an array of basic, multipurpose items whose utility is clear for responding to incidents ranging from hurricanes to acts of terrorism." In a letter to this week, Democratic senator and presidential candidate Barack Obama ( ) said the National Guard's equipment was stretched thin in his home state of Illinois. Citing data from the , Obama added that the Illinois National Guard has only 45.6 percent of needed equipment on hand &#151; less than half of what he said would be needed to handle a Mississippi River flood, respond to deadly tornadoes or evacuate civilians wounded in an attack. "Our National Guard should never be overstretched to the point where we allow our homeland security and emergency response capabilities to erode," Obama wrote. "We cannot afford to learn a lesson about unmet needs each time a disaster strikes." The biggest fear in Nevada is the upcoming fire season. Last year, fire burned more than 2,000 square miles in the state. Guard officials there say they are ready, but Democrats in the Nevada Senate signed a letter urging Republican Gov. Jim Gibbons to petition President Bush to call Nevada guardsmen home by November. Gibbons does not intend to petition the president, his spokesman said. Oregon officials also worry about responding to earthquakes. Geologists say there is potential for a major inland earthquake or a tsunami off the Oregon coast. "We are in as good shape as we can be, given the circumstances," said Jake Weigler, spokesman for Gov. Ted Kulongoski. "But obviously, these war deployments have hurt our abilities to respond to these types of disasters." In Florida, where officials are preparing for a predicted busy hurricane season, U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson ( ) has expressed concern that the state National Guard has only 53 percent of the dual-use equipment it once had for responding to a storm or domestic disturbance, according to the GAO analysis. But a Florida National Guard spokesman, Lt. Col. Ron Tittle, noted Thursday that the Guard responded to the 2004 and 2005 hurricanes with less equipment and fewer troops than are available now. "It's not a show stopper," Tittle said. "We proved we can respond effectively in 2004 and 2004. We will be there. There is no question in our minds &#151; we've got sufficient equipment to satisfy any emergency management requirements in Florida." Full Coverage: U.S. Armed Forces U.S. fighter jets leave Japan AP, Thu May 10, 3:42 AM ET Gates considers alternatives for US in Iraq AFP, Wed May 9, 9:56 PM ET On vacation from the war in Iraq at Christian Science Monitor, May 09 Fort Dix trained military for 90 years AP via Yahoo! News, May 08 Gen. Petraeus Warns Against Using Torture at The Washington Post (reg. req'd), May 11 Death of Teen Soldier Brings Grief to Iowans at The Washington Post (reg. req'd), May 11 When is an army broken? at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), May 02 Warriors at the limit at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), Apr 30 Hundreds flee S. Calif. island wildfire Va. Tech students prepare to graduate Fort Dix suspects all are denied bail Men apologize for cartoon stunt 2 detained in Las Vegas bombing Most Viewed - U.S. Hundreds flee S. Calif. island wildfire XM shock jocks apologize for sex comment U.S. divorce rate lowest since 1970 Men apologize for cartoon stunt Fort Dix suspects all are denied bail Moms on Being Mothers ABC News - 16 minutes ago CAUGHT: 91-Year-Old Viciously Beaten on Tape ABC News - 17 minutes ago Oil Spill in Georgia ABC News - 17 minutes ago Weather aids fire fight CNN - 40 minutes ago Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Kansas National Guard stages along a street in Greensburg, Kan., in this Monday, May 7,... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: Elsewhere on the Web &#39;Fort Dix Six&#39; ordered held without bail EXCLUSIVE: George Stephanopoulos Interviews Presidential Hopeful Barack Obama Invasive cargo spawns calls for regulations Yahoo! News "60 Minutes" He's a human calculator who sees numbers as shapes and colors. Copyright &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20070510/ap_on_re_us/terrorism_arrest	Doctor in terror trial defends himself - Yahoo! News Doctor in terror trial defends himself By LARRY NEUMEISTER, Associated Press Writer Wed May 9, 10:54 PM ET NEW YORK - A Florida doctor accused of pledging to support terrorists testified Wednesday that he never believed he was agreeing to aid al-Qaida when he took an oath from an agent the government says was posing as a terror recruiter. "I am not a member of al-Qaida," Rafiq Abdus Sabir told the jury during his trial in U.S. District Court in Manhattan. "It is wrong to kill." He said there was "no way I'm going to align myself with al-Qaida." "That is just not me," he said. "I never had any thoughts about them whatsoever and all the nasty things they have done around the world, killing people, innocent people mostly and the big atrocities they have done around the world." Sabir was arrested after an FBI sting operation and charged with providing material support to a terrorist organization, a charge that could carry a prison sentence of up to 30 years if he is convicted. On Monday, FBI agent Ali Soufan testified that he administered an oath in May 2004 to Sabir and his good friend, jazz musician and martial arts expert Tarik Shah, in which both men pledged their support to al-Qaida and its leader, A tape recording of the pledge ceremony and Soufan's testimony are the centerpiece of the government's case against Sabir, who is standing trial alone after three co-defendants &#151; Shah, a Washington, D.C., cab driver and a Brooklyn bookstore owner &#151; pleaded guilty and agreed to sentences between 13 and 15 years in prison. Sabir said he thought the oath was a pledge to support Muslim brothers, meaning all Muslims, and it was the traditional oath given for centuries to Muslims who wanted to strengthen their commitment to their faith. He said he never heard bin Laden's name and, "I did not think al-Qaida was involved in this in any way, shape or form." When Soufan mentioned "Sheik Osama" on the tape, Sabir never thought it referred to bin Laden because "Osama" is a common name and "sheik" can only be used to refer to someone who has received religious training, which bin Laden has not, the doctor testified. Sabir said that when he made his religious pledge, known as pledging bayat, he had "no idea what I was getting into." "I had no idea what this bayat was going to cost me," he added. "I had no idea it was going to end up in something like this." Full Coverage: Terrorism & 9/11 Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media Reuters, 11 minutes ago Cuba says U.S. broke anti-terrorism treaties Reuters, 26 minutes ago Six Ordinary Lives That Took a Detour to a World of Terror at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Fort Dix suspects' lives gave few clues AP via Yahoo! News, May 08 Jury selected for Padilla trial at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), May 09 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Fort Dix at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Michael Chertoff: Yes, we're at war. No, it's not hype. at Minneapolis Star Tribune, Apr 25 Hundreds flee S. Calif. island wildfire Va. Tech dad: Graduation 'right for us' Fort Dix suspects all are denied bail Men apologize for cartoon stunt 2 detained in Las Vegas bombing Most Viewed - U.S. Hundreds flee S. Calif. island wildfire XM shock jocks apologize for sex comment U.S. divorce rate lowest since 1970 Men apologize for cartoon stunt Fort Dix suspects all are denied bail Moms on Being Mothers ABC News - 16 minutes ago CAUGHT: 91-Year-Old Viciously Beaten on Tape ABC News - 17 minutes ago Oil Spill in Georgia ABC News - 17 minutes ago Weather aids fire fight CNN - 40 minutes ago Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) Al-Qaida & Osama bin Laden &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: Elsewhere on the Web &#39;Fort Dix Six&#39; ordered held without bail EXCLUSIVE: George Stephanopoulos Interviews Presidential Hopeful Barack Obama Invasive cargo spawns calls for regulations Yahoo! News "60 Minutes" He's a human calculator who sees numbers as shapes and colors. Copyright &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20070510/ts_nm/iraq_dc	Bush faces pressure on Iraq as Blair leaves - Yahoo! News Bush faces pressure on Iraq as Blair leaves By Steve Holland and Richard Cowan Thu May 10, 3:32 PM ET WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President George W. Bush President George W. Bush faced mounting pressure on Thursday from fellow Republicans as well as Democrats to show progress in within months or risk a collapse in support for the war. On the day that Bush&#39;s closest international ally on the war, British Prime Minister , announced he would step down next month, Democrats in the House of Representatives refused to back away from proposals to change course in Iraq. Bush, who vetoed a &#36;124 billion war funding bill last week because it set a deadline for the withdrawal of combat troops, fired back by saying Congress should give military commanders more time and flexibility. As for the House Democrats&#39; bill providing some war funds now and possibly more later, Bush said, "I&#39;ll veto the bill if it&#39;s this haphazard, piecemeal funding." After a meeting with U.S. commanders for an update on the war, Bush hailed Blair as a "political figure who is capable of thinking over the horizon," after the British leader made the expected announcement that he would step down in June. Blair told Britons disillusioned by the war, which severely damaged both leaders&#39; standing at home and abroad, that he had done what he believed was right. Members of Bush&#39;s Republican Party also have begun to more publicly question the war, which has killed at least 3,377 U.S. soldiers and injured more than 24,000 since 2003. "The American people are war-fatigued," Illinois Republican Rep. Ray LaHood ( ) told CNN on Thursday. "The American people want to know that there&#39;s a way out. The American people want to know that we&#39;re having success." LaHood was among 11 moderate Republicans who met privately with Bush at the White House on Tuesday. Most, if not all, could face stiff Democratic challenges in 2008 elections. They told Bush that by September the troop buildup he ordered for Iraq three months ago must show progress. Bush is sending 30,000 additional troops to Iraq, mainly for the offensive in Baghdad, which is regarded as a last-ditch effort to pull Iraq back from the brink of civil war. In a sign of growing U.S. impatience at Iraq&#39;s slowness in passing laws on oil distribution and other key measures, U.S. Vice President made an unannounced visit there this week and told U.S. soldiers on Thursday that militants had made Iraq the frontline in the war on terrorism. "We are here, above all, because the terrorists who have declared war on America and other free nations have made Iraq the central front in that war," Cheney told the troops at a base near &#39;s home town of Tikrit. In a positive sign, the office of Iraq&#39;s Sunni Vice President Tareq al-Hashemi said the senior Sunni leader had been "comforted" by recent meetings with political leaders aimed at addressing Sunni Arab concerns. Hashemi and other senior figures from Iraq&#39;s largest Sunni Arab bloc had warned they might quit the government of Shi&#39;ite Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki if their grievances were ignored. On Wednesday, Cheney held round table talks with Hashemi, Maliki and President Jalal Talabani, a Kurd. Sunnis want to increase their representation in Iraq&#39;s security forces and soften laws that prohibit thousands of members of Saddam&#39;s former Sunni-dominated Baath Party from playing a role in public life. Democratic lawmakers argue that withholding some funds could put pressure on Iraqis to step up attempts to stabilize their country. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ( ) scheduled votes for later in the day on bills that would provide partial war funding and begin withdrawing troops. One bill, which even backers say will be defeated, would flatly deny funds for Bush&#39;s troop escalation and require U.S. troops to finish withdrawing within six to nine months. More likely to pass the House is a bill that would give the &#36;42.8 billion in emergency funds so it can continue waging war in Iraq and for the next two to three months. Congress would then vote in July on whether an additional &#36;52.8 billion would be released after Bush provides new assessments of the war. (Additional reporting by Dean Yates and Mussab Al-Khairalla) US soldiers ride Buffalo in hunt for Iraqi roadside bombs AFP, 12 minutes ago Iraq needs foreign troops for 1-2 years: president Reuters, 13 minutes ago Analysis: Gates sees urgency in Iraq AP via Yahoo! News, May 10 A Sheik and His Uninvited 'Guests' Mirror Uneasy Iraq-U.S. Ties at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 08 US House passes Iraq funding bill at BBC, May 11 Gen. Petraeus Warns Against Using Torture at The Washington Post (reg. req'd), May 11 Why President Bush needs a yardstick for failure in Iraq at Christian Science Monitor, May 11 at The Washington Post (reg. req'd), May 08 Hundreds flee S. Calif. island wildfire Iraq lobbies Congress for U.S. support Fort Dix suspects all are denied bail Va. Tech students prepare to graduate Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Most Viewed: Top Stories Kidnapped girl&#39;s dad says no "stone unturned" in hunt House passes Iraq funds bill Bush would veto Cheney warns Iran, assures allies on Gulf visit Rice confronts assertive Russia with less leverage Section of China&#39;s Great Wall discovered Beckham pleads for missing toddler&#39;s return AP - 1 hour, 50 minutes ago Bush Ready to Toss War Funding Bill ABC News - Fri May 11, 8:03 AM ET New Study on Warming ABC News - Fri May 11, 8:33 AM ET ABC News - Fri May 11, 8:02 AM ET Iraqi soldiers stop a motorist at a checkpoint during a three-hour curfew for Friday prayers... Anger in Iraqi parliament Anger erupts in the Iraqi parliament when the chamber&#39;s speaker laughs during a report on ongoing bloodshed. CNN&#39;s Hugh Riminton reports (May 10) &raquo; More CNN video Bush vows veto of war funding plan &raquo; More Reuters video &raquo; Show all news video Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: President George W. Bush Elsewhere on the Web U.S. general wants more troops for bloody Iraq province The OxyContin &#39;Conspiracy&#39; -- Is $700 Million Enough? Invasive cargo spawns calls for regulations Kevin Sites in the Hot Zone An Afghan child bride gets help from Hot Zone readers. Copyright &copy; 2007 Reuters Limited. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Reuters content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20070510/ap_on_go_ca_st_pe/national_guard_authority	Gates rejects emergency command proposal - Yahoo! News Gates rejects emergency command proposal By LOLITA C. BALDOR, Associated Press Writer Wed May 9, 11:02 PM ET WASHINGTON - Defense Secretary Robert Gates has rejected a proposal to let governors command active duty troops responding to disasters, officials said Wednesday, though the will grant National Guard leaders more authority to coordinate with other military and homeland security agencies. Gates told Congress Wednesday he had approved 20 of the 23 changes recommended recently by an independent commission in an effort to improve Guard funding, equipment and coordination in emergencies. His comments came just days after tornadoes in Kansas highlighted deficiencies with Guard equipment and gaps in planning that were exposed by the Gulf hurricanes more than 18 months ago. Gates did not reveal which recommendations from the Commission on the National Guard and Reserves that he rejected. But two defense officials familiar with the matter told The Associated Press he didn't agree with the panel's suggestion that governors be allowed to direct active duty troops responding to emergencies in their states. The officials requested anonymity because Gates' decisions on the commission report have not yet been made public. Asked for comment, a spokeswoman for Oregon Gov. Ted Kulongoski said, "The governor doesn't believe the best structure is dual command during a time of emergency." "He thinks there needs to be further discussion and review of whether a governor and adjutant general should be given command of all troops assisting in the response during a time of emergency," said the spokeswoman, Anna Richter-Taylor. Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano, chairwoman of the National Governors Association, had no immediate comment on the development, spokesman Jeanine L'Ecuyer said. In previous situations such as Hurricane Katrina, military leaders have worked side by side with governors but have maintained command of their active duty troops. The governors have authority over their own National Guard troops during state disasters, but the U.S. military takes command if the Guard is federalized by the president, such as in major crises such as the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. The governors cannot command regular, active-duty forces. The commission in its March 1 report, concluded that states and governors are not adequately considered in decisions relating to the Guard. Gates concurred with the panel's other proposals to have the governors work more closely with the Pentagon. He told the Senate Defense Appropriations panel Wednesday that the department is "trying to deal with some of these Guard problems. And we will be more than happy to work with you all, with the governors association, with the adjutants general to get at this problem." Specifically, he said, he approved making the chief of the National Guard a four-star general, rather than a three-star. According to the officials, Gates also agreed that the head of the National Guard &#151; currently Lt. Gen. H. Steven Blum &#151; should be made an adviser to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and other top military commanders. In its March report, the commission concluded that the National Guard and Reserves don't get enough money or equipment and are left out of important planning for national emergencies. The panel found a significant lack of communication between reserve officials and other military leaders, the Department and U.S. Northern Command, which is responsible for the military's defense of the U.S. Many of the 23 recommended changes are largely administrative, aimed at improving coordination between the various federal agencies. Gates also rejected a proposal that would require that at all times either the commander or deputy commander of U.S. Northern Command be a Guard or Reserve officer, and a change that would elevate the Guard to a joint military command. During the Senate hearing, lawmakers expressed repeated concerns about whether Guard units in the states are adequately prepared and have all the needed equipment to respond to disasters. "These Guard and Reserve have answered the call when they've been sent abroad. But we also need them to answer the call at home if they're needed," said Sen. Patrick Leahy ( Gates said there is nearly $22 billion in the budget for the Army Guard between 2008-2013. Commission on the National Guard and Reserves: Full Coverage: U.S. Armed Forces U.S. fighter jets leave Japan AP, Thu May 10, 3:42 AM ET Gates considers alternatives for US in Iraq AFP, Wed May 9, 9:56 PM ET On vacation from the war in Iraq at Christian Science Monitor, May 09 Fort Dix trained military for 90 years AP via Yahoo! News, May 08 Gen. Petraeus Warns Against Using Torture at The Washington Post (reg. req'd), May 11 Death of Teen Soldier Brings Grief to Iowans at The Washington Post (reg. req'd), May 11 When is an army broken? at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), May 02 Warriors at the limit at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), Apr 30 Iraq lobbies Congress for U.S. support Vote postponed on immigration bill Judge OKs immunity deal in firings probe Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Giuliani reaffirms pro-choice stance Most Viewed - Politics Commander in Iraq asks for more troops House OKs Iraq funds in installments Democratic candidates woo firefighters John Edwards' big ideas costly Katrina dips in popularity as baby name Greeters Meet President Bush As He Arrives KDKA Pittsburgh - 43 minutes ago President Bush Visits St. Vincent College KDKA Pittsburgh - 56 minutes ago Cafferty: Dictating on Iraq? CNN - Fri May 11, 10:14 AM ET House votes on Iraq funding CNN - Fri May 11, 10:14 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Defense Secretary Robert Gates, right, accompanied by Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Peter Pace, testifies on... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) White House News - AP &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: Elsewhere on the Web Justice official who plead the Fifth gets immunity Senators who weakened drug bill got millions from industry SEND US YOUR PHOTOS! Following the presidential campaign? Submit pictures of candidates, supporters, and events to You Witness News. Featured IN YAHOO! NEWS Election coverage and analysis from Congressional Quarterly. &raquo; More from Congressional Quarterly All news on Chief Justice Roberts, Samuel Alito's nomination, and more. &raquo; All Court Coverage Yahoo! News Search Now Contains Blogs Find the latest posts about what's in the news. Copyright &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20070511/ap_on_re_eu/germany_sept_11_trial	Sept. 11 suspect loses appeal in Germany - Yahoo! News Sept. 11 suspect loses appeal in Germany By DAVID RISING, Associated Press Writer Fri May 11, 9:17 AM ET BERLIN - Germany's top criminal court on Friday said it had refused to take up the appeal of a Moroccan man convicted of helping three of the Sept. 11 suicide pilots in their plot, leaving the 33-year-old with no further legal action possible in the country. Mounir el Motassadeq was convicted in November of being an accessory to the murder of the 246 passengers and crew on the four jetliners used in the 2001 terrorist attacks. He was sentenced to 15 years in prison, the maximum penalty possible under German law, and the Federal Court of Justice said it found el Motassadeq's appeal to be "unfounded" in a May 2 decision. Germany's constitutional court in January had already refused to hear a separate appeal in which el Motassadeq's attorneys claimed that evidence from other terrorism suspects was not properly considered at his trial. The decision Friday was a final step in what has been a long trip through the German legal system that began when el Motassadeq was arrested two months after the Sept. 11 attacks and has featured two full trials. El Motassadeq's attorney Udo Jacob has said in the past that once he had exhausted appeals in Germany he would consider taking the case to the European Court for Human Rights. El Motassadeq was first convicted and sentenced to the maximum 15 years in prison in 2003, but that verdict was overturned by a federal court the following year &#151; largely because of lack of evidence from al-Qaida suspects in U.S. custody. At a retrial in 2005, the U.S. provided limited summaries from the interrogation of, among others, Ramzi Binalshibh, a suspected liaison between the Hamburg hijackers and al-Qaida. The Hamburg court acquitted el Motassadeq of direct involvement in the attacks, but sentenced him to seven years for belonging to a terrorist group. Prosecutors appealed the decision, and in November the Federal Court of Justice ruled that evidence showed el Motassadeq was aware Hamburg-based hijackers Mohamed Atta, Marwan al-Shehhi and Ziad Jarrah planned to hijack and crash planes, even though he might not have known the specifics of the plot. It convicted him of 246 counts of accessory to murder in addition to the membership in a terrorist organization charge. Judge Klaus Tolksdorf ruled then that el Motassadeq had helped "watch the attackers' backs and conceal them" by doing things such as helping them keep up the appearance of being regular university students &#151; paying tuition and rent fees, and transferring money. Tolksdorf said it was irrelevant to el Motassadeq's guilt whether he knew of the planned timing, dimension or targets of the attacks. Full Coverage: Terrorism & 9/11 Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media Reuters, 4 minutes ago Cuba says U.S. broke anti-terrorism treaties Reuters, 19 minutes ago Six Ordinary Lives That Took a Detour to a World of Terror at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Fort Dix suspects' lives gave few clues AP via Yahoo! News, May 08 Jury selected for Padilla trial at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), May 09 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Fort Dix at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Michael Chertoff: Yes, we're at war. No, it's not hype. at Minneapolis Star Tribune, Apr 25 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint U.S. confirms Afghan civilian casualties Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media Most Viewed - World Iran, North Korea seek to boost cooperation Koreas adopt military agreement Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 CNN - 40 minutes ago Radler can&#39;t be trusted, Greenspan says CBC.ca - 2 hours, 52 minutes ago Politics and the Pope ABC News - Fri May 11, 9:34 AM ET Blair endorses Brown as successor CBC.ca - Fri May 11, 9:28 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Mounir El Motassadeq (L) and his lawyer Udo Jacob are pictured prior to the trial... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) Europe News - AP &raquo; More News Feeds Elsewhere on the Web Blair backs Brown leadership bid Source: Aid workers kidnapped in Somalia are safe The Man Who Would Be Prime Minister Diverse views on news from the right, left, and center Copyright &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20070511/ts_nm/cuba_usa_dc	Cuba says U.S. broke anti-terrorism treaties - Yahoo! News Cuba says U.S. broke anti-terrorism treaties HAVANA (Reuters) - Cuba accused the United States on Friday of violating international anti-terrorism treaties by failing to prosecute an anti-Castro militant and former operative wanted for bomb attacks against the country. Cuba said Washington should have arrested Cuban exile Luis Posada Carriles under its own Patriot Act as a security threat and called for his extradition to Venezuela to stand trial for plotting from Caracas the downing of a Cuban airliner that killed 73 people in 1976. "The U.S. government should have tried Posada Carriles for terrorism," Cuba said in a statement that deplored the freeing of the accused bomber in United States after a U.S. judge dismissed immigration fraud charges against him on Tuesday. "Let&#39;s see what the White House does now. It still has the option to fulfill its international obligations to detain Luis Posada Carriles and extradite him to Venezuela," the statement published in the Communist Party newspaper Granma said. Cuba said the immigration indictment was a "smoke screen" to avoid prosecuting Posada Carriles for acts of violence that would have revealed his links over 25 years to the Posada Carriles, 79, was arrested in Miami in 2005 after illegally entering the United States. Cuba also accuses him of plotting a wave of bomb blasts in Havana hotels and nightclubs that killed an Italian tourist in 1997. By not prosecuting Posada Carriles for his violent past, the United States had failed to comply with U.N. Resolution 1373, a wide-ranging counter-terrorism adopted in the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks, among other international conventions, Cuba said. The Cuban exile could yet be indicted on terrorism charges in the United States by a federal grand jury impaneled in Newark, New Jersey to determine his role in the 1997 Havana bombings, the Miami Herald reported last week. took the unusual step of sending agents to Cuba to gather evidence late last year, the newspaper said. In a 1998 interview, Posada Carriles told The New York Times he plotted the wave of bomb blasts from Central America. He later denied saying so. Trained by the CIA for its failed Bay of Pigs invasion to oust Cuban leader in 1961, Posada Carriles was jailed in Venezuela for the 1976 bombing of the Cuban airliner, but escaped from prison in 1985. He was jailed in Panama for plotting to blow up Castro during a regional summit in 2000, but was pardoned by outgoing President Mireya Moscoso in 2004. Cuba has displayed in an exhibition hall evidence of the string of bombings allegedly masterminded by the man it calls Latin America&#39;s Photographs show plastic explosives smuggled into Cuba in shampoo bottles, digital clocks used to make time bombs and damages caused by the blasts. Targets included Havana&#39;s famed Tropicana cabaret and the Bodeguita del Medio, where writer Ernest Hemingway once drank his mojitos. Cuba says U.S. broke anti-terrorism treaties Reuters, 28 minutes ago Cuba accuses U.S. of violating treaties AP, Fri May 11, 9:44 AM ET Cubans fret over pesos before politics Reuters via Yahoo! News, Apr 11 U.S. leaves Cuban physicians in limbo at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), Mar 08 US drops Cuban militant's charges at BBC, May 09 Fidel Castro sends word to May Day rally at The Guardian (UK)., May 02 at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), Apr 20 Autumn of the commandante; another dictator sinks at The Daily Star (Lebanon), Jan 22 Hundreds flee S. Calif. island wildfire Iraq lobbies Congress for U.S. support Fort Dix suspects all are denied bail Va. Tech dad: Graduation 'right for us' Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Most Viewed: Top Stories Kidnapped girl&#39;s dad says no "stone unturned" in hunt House passes Iraq funds bill Bush would veto Cheney warns Iran, assures allies on Gulf visit Rice confronts assertive Russia with less leverage Section of China&#39;s Great Wall discovered Beckham pleads for missing toddler&#39;s return AP - 1 hour, 50 minutes ago Bush Ready to Toss War Funding Bill ABC News - Fri May 11, 8:03 AM ET New Study on Warming ABC News - Fri May 11, 8:33 AM ET ABC News - Fri May 11, 8:02 AM ET A sign with the image of anti-Castro Cuban exile Luis Posada Carriles and the headline... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) World - Latin America &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: Elsewhere on the Web U.S. general wants more troops for bloody Iraq province The OxyContin &#39;Conspiracy&#39; -- Is $700 Million Enough? The Christian Science Monitor For cartoon-college grads, future is hard to sketch Kevin Sites in the Hot Zone An Afghan child bride gets help from Hot Zone readers. Copyright &copy; 2007 Reuters Limited. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Reuters content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20070510/ap_on_go_co/homeland_security	Veto threat looms over security bill - Yahoo! News Veto threat looms over security bill By JIM ABRAMS, Associated Press Writer Wed May 9, 9:40 PM ET WASHINGTON - The Bush administration warned the House on Wednesday that legislation to authorize Department programs would face a veto if it gives the agency's 170,000 employees greater collective bargaining rights. The White House said eliminating the current personnel system would "diminish the department's ability to respond quickly to security threats and would negatively impact the security of the nation." The bill, which approves $39.8 billion for Homeland Security programs in the budget year starting Oct. 1, passed by the House on Wednesday on a 296-126 vote, sending it to the Senate. The labor dispute was a major sticking point when Congress in decided in 2002 to consolidate 22 agencies into the new department after the Sept. 11 attacks. The bill creating the agency easily passed the House, but it stalled in the Senate for months. Democrats balked at 's insistence that he needed the power to hire, fire and shift workers without the civil service protections most federal workers have. According to the final compromise, the agency has the ultimate say over labor rules if there is an impasse. The president was given the authority, in an emergency, to strip workers of bargaining rights. The White House said eliminating this system would upset the balance "between the flexibility needed to defend against a ruthless enemy and the fairness needed to ensure employee rights." Beth Moten, legislative and political director of the American Federation of Government Employees, said morale at the department is lower than in any other federal agency. "It's time to restore the rights and protections of employees at the Department of Homeland Security so they can concentrate on the job they need to do, which is protecting all of us," she said. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ( ), D-Calif., said the bill would restore funds for grants "that allow those on the front lines to prepare and respond to threats or disasters" as well as streamline management, reform contracting practices and improve oversight at the agency. But Republicans complained that the final version undercut several security programs, including one funding employee immigration checks at high risk sites and another allowing emergency communication grants to be used for first responder training. At the end of the debate, Republicans succeeded in pushing through a measure allowing the Homeland Security secretary to authorize the Automated Targeting System that uses information already available on high-risk passengers entering the country. Civil rights and privacy groups have criticized the program, which is being used by the Customs and Border Patrol. Information on the bill, H.R. 1684, can be found at Full Coverage: Terrorism & 9/11 Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media Reuters, 13 minutes ago Cuba says U.S. broke anti-terrorism treaties Reuters, 28 minutes ago Six Ordinary Lives That Took a Detour to a World of Terror at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Fort Dix suspects' lives gave few clues AP via Yahoo! News, May 08 Jury selected for Padilla trial at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), May 09 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Fort Dix at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 at The New York Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Michael Chertoff: Yes, we're at war. No, it's not hype. at Minneapolis Star Tribune, Apr 25 Iraq lobbies Congress for U.S. support Vote postponed on immigration bill Judge OKs immunity deal in firings probe Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Giuliani reaffirms pro-choice stance Most Viewed - Politics Commander in Iraq asks for more troops House OKs Iraq funds in installments Democratic candidates woo firefighters John Edwards' big ideas costly Katrina dips in popularity as baby name Greeters Meet President Bush As He Arrives KDKA Pittsburgh - 43 minutes ago President Bush Visits St. Vincent College KDKA Pittsburgh - 56 minutes ago Cafferty: Dictating on Iraq? CNN - Fri May 11, 10:14 AM ET House votes on Iraq funding CNN - Fri May 11, 10:14 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Italian Interior Minister Giuliano Amato, third from left at table, looks on at a preliminary... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) Politics - U.S. Congress &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: Elsewhere on the Web Justice official who plead the Fifth gets immunity Senators who weakened drug bill got millions from industry SEND US YOUR PHOTOS! Following the presidential campaign? Submit pictures of candidates, supporters, and events to You Witness News. Featured IN YAHOO! NEWS Election coverage and analysis from Congressional Quarterly. &raquo; More from Congressional Quarterly All news on Chief Justice Roberts, Samuel Alito's nomination, and more. &raquo; All Court Coverage Yahoo! News Search Now Contains Blogs Find the latest posts about what's in the news. Copyright &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20070510/ap_on_re_eu/russia_bomb_plot	Russia orders 2 arrested in bomb plot - Yahoo! News Russia orders 2 arrested in bomb plot Thu May 10, 4:08 PM ET MOSCOW - A court Thursday ordered the arrest of two men allegedly involved in what security agents said was a thwarted terror plot planned for Victory Day involving an explosives-laden car, a spokeswoman said. The Lefortovo District Court sanctioned the arrest of Umar Batukayev and Ruslan Musaeva in connection with the investigation, said court spokeswoman Anna Usacheva. She identified Batukayev as a student at a Moscow law university, but gave no other information on Musaeva or any other details. Earlier, Russian news agencies quoted officials with the Federal Security Service, or FSB, as saying that law enforcement agents had discovered an explosives-laden passenger car near a residential building in a Moscow region on Tuesday and only finished defusing it on Thursday. Demolition experts used a robot to retrieve bomb components, including a radio to set off the bomb, a grenade, a fuse and electric detonators, as well as a submachine gun with two cartridge clips, Interfax quoted the FSB as saying. A search of the back seat revealed a bomb containing 15 pounds of plastic explosives and ball bearings, computer chips and additional charges, Interfax said. Russian television broadcast video of security agents shooting a water cannon at a small, partially wrecked Russian-made sedan. An FSB duty officer confirmed the reports, but refused to elaborate. News agencies quoted the FSB as saying that several people from the North Caucasus region had been detained in the investigation. RIA-Novosti quoted a defense lawyer for Batukayev as saying that the court order for his client's arrest was illegal and that he would challenge the order. The Russian organization For Human Rights said Batukayev's relatives complained they could barely recognize him when he appeared at the Lefortovo court Thursday, that he could not stand up, and that he appeared to have been brutally beaten. Law enforcement officials could not be reached for comment on the allegations. Security forces routinely go on higher alert during Victory Day, which marks the triumph over Nazi Germany in World War II. During celebrations in 2004, a bomb exploded in a stadium in the capital of , killing Chechen President Akhmed Kadyrov. 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint Sept. 11 suspect loses appeal in Germany U.S. confirms Afghan civilian casualties Most Viewed - World Iran, North Korea seek to boost cooperation Koreas adopt military agreement Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 CNN - 41 minutes ago Radler can&#39;t be trusted, Greenspan says CBC.ca - 2 hours, 52 minutes ago Politics and the Pope ABC News - Fri May 11, 9:34 AM ET Blair endorses Brown as successor CBC.ca - Fri May 11, 9:28 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) Europe News - AP &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: Elsewhere on the Web Blair backs Brown leadership bid Source: Aid workers kidnapped in Somalia are safe The Man Who Would Be Prime Minister Diverse views on news from the right, left, and center Copyright &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press.
http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/terrorism/*http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20070509/ap_on_re_eu/germany_raids	Fear of G-8 violence prompts German raid - Yahoo! News Fear of G-8 violence prompts German raid By KIRSTEN GRIESHABER, Associated Press Writer Wed May 9, 4:50 PM ET BERLIN - Hundreds of German police used anti-terrorism laws Wednesday to raid the offices and apartments of globalization opponents they fear could disrupt next month's Group of Eight summit with firebombings and other attacks. Security officials also announced tighter border controls ahead of the June 6-8 summit in the northern resort town of Heiligendamm. Some 900 federal and local police officers in Berlin and other cities searched about 40 offices and apartments used by several left-wing activists and groups, they said. Prosecutors said they were investigating more than 18 people suspected of organizing what they called a terrorist group that planned to carry out firebombings and other violence to hinder the summit of world leaders. "The militant extreme left groups and their members are suspected of having founded a terrorist group, or of being members of such an organization, with the specific goal of staging fire bombings and other violent attacks in order to disrupt or prevent the upcoming G-8 summit in Heiligendamm," federal prosecutors said in a statement. Germany's interior ministry announced it would tighten border controls to screen out violent protesters. People can usually travel freely within the but individual countries maintain the right to tighten checks for security purposes. Violence has marred past summits, particularly in 2001 in Genoa, Italy, when police and protesters clashed in the streets for days. Federal prosecutors said the raids focused on dismantling a computer server where they said many leftist groups maintained Web sites and mailing lists. Activists, who will hold approved marches in nearby Rostock ahead of the summit, said the raids were aimed at silencing protests against the G-8, disrupting communication among anti-globalization groups and tracking down the names of individuals involved in them. Some of groups that were targeted in the raid planned to block roads leading to Heiligendamm on June 6 to prevent politicians, journalists and service staff from reaching the summit, said one activist. "The consequences of these searches for us is that it will bring the groups closer together and we will continue to mobilize for a massive blockade of the G-8 summit," said Tim Laumeyer, a member of the Anti-Fascist Leftists of Berlin. Police took copies of the group's mailing lists and data on their computers. Investigators also searched private apartments, a photo archive, left-wing publishing houses and community centers. "The goal of the raids was to collect information about potential disruptions during the G-8 and intimidate activists ahead of the summit," said Christoph Kliesing, a lawyer for the protesters. A member of Gipfelsoli Infogruppe, a group that collects and spreads information about protests against the G-8, said that their Web page had been down all day. "They cut the cable of the server," said Matthias Monroy of Gipfelsoli. "This is really awful for us &#151; all our information about the protests is not accessible anymore and we don't know if we will be able to retrieve all the material." German security officials have built a $17-million fence around the northern seaside resort of Heiligendamm, hoping to keep protesters away. German Chancellor Angela Merkel is hosting the event, and the leaders of the United States, Russia, Britain, France, Italy, Canada, and Japan are to attend. The protesters say they oppose the G-8 summit because the world's rich leaders ignore the suffering of people in developing countries while unrestrained globalization helps big business at the expense of the environment and workers. Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media Reuters, 14 minutes ago Deutsche Telekom employees dig in for Germany-wide strike AFP, 18 minutes ago Eye-Witness Account of Hitler's WWI Years Found at Spiegel Online, May 01 Germany Rediscovers the US as a Partner at Spiegel Online, Apr 30 Germans wary of security measures at The Los Angeles Times (reg. req'd), May 09 Germany launches obesity campaign at BBC, May 09 Spy who never came in from the cold at Toronto Star (reg req'd), Nov 14 The Abhorrent Exception to the Rule at Deutsche Welle, Oct 26 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint Sept. 11 suspect loses appeal in Germany U.S. confirms Afghan civilian casualties Most Viewed - World Iran, North Korea seek to boost cooperation Koreas adopt military agreement Britain's Brown vows to learn from Iraq Pope canonizes first Brazilian saint 2 car bombs at Baghdad bridges kill 12 CNN - 41 minutes ago Radler can&#39;t be trusted, Greenspan says CBC.ca - 2 hours, 53 minutes ago Politics and the Pope ABC News - Fri May 11, 9:34 AM ET Blair endorses Brown as successor CBC.ca - Fri May 11, 9:28 AM ET Mothers Day Flowers: $20 Guaranteed Mother's Day delivery. Free vase. "Best Value" - WSJ. Mortgage Rates Fall Again $430,000 Loan $1299/mo. Think you pay too much? Calculate new payment. Refinance and Save $1,000S $150,000 Mortgage for $483/month. Compare up to 4 free quotes. Protesters march against the upcoming June G8 summit in Germany, in the Berlin district of... Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (About My Yahoo! and RSS) Europe News - AP &raquo; More News Feeds Get an alert when there are new stories about: Elsewhere on the Web Blair backs Brown leadership bid Source: Aid workers kidnapped in Somalia are safe The Man Who Would Be Prime Minister Diverse views on news from the right, left, and center Copyright &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press.
http://news.yahoo.com/i/2807	Terrorism on Yahoo! News Attacks planned for U.S. targets in Germany: media WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. and German officials say they believed terrorists were planning an attack on U.S. military personnel or tourists in Germany, ABC News reported on its Web site on Friday. Cuba says U.S. broke anti-terrorism treaties HAVANA (Reuters) - Cuba accused the United States on Friday of violating international anti-terrorism treaties by failing to prosecute an anti-Castro militant and former CIA operative wanted for bomb attacks against the country. Sept. 11 suspect loses appeal in Germany Fri May 11, 9:17 AM ET BERLIN - Germany's top criminal court on Friday said it had refused to take up the appeal of a Moroccan man convicted of helping three of the Sept. 11 suicide pilots in their plot, leaving the 33-year-old with no further legal action possible in the country. No disciplinary action for London police Fri May 11, 9:16 AM ET LONDON - Eleven police officers will not face disciplinary action in the death of a Brazilian man who was mistaken for a terrorist and gunned down in the subway days after the 2005 London transit bombings, a police commission said Friday. Fort Dix suspects all are denied bail CAMDEN, N.J. - Six Muslim men suspected of plotting to massacre U.S. soldiers at Fort Dix were ordered held without bail Friday. U.S. charges suspected bin Laden driver Thu May 10, 7:53 PM ET SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico - The United States filed charges of conspiracy and providing support for terrorism Thursday against a Guantanamo detainee accused of working as a driver and bodyguard for Osama bin Laden. Govs worry about depleted National Guard Thu May 10, 7:41 PM ET TAMPA, Fla. - With repeated deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan leaving state National Guards without nearly half of their required equipment, some governors are loudly questioning whether they will be able to handle the next hurricane, wildfire or terrorist attack at home. White House doles out millions in grants Thu May 10, 5:37 PM ET WASHINGTON - The Bush administration on Thursday divided $445 million in grants to protect commuters, shipping ports, and transit systems from terrorist attacks &#151; a 10 percent increase from last year. Russia orders 2 arrested in bomb plot Thu May 10, 4:08 PM ET MOSCOW - A court Thursday ordered the arrest of two men allegedly involved in what security agents said was a thwarted terror plot planned for Victory Day involving an explosives-laden car, a spokeswoman said. Syrian action over Iraq, terror key to better US ties: Rice Thu May 10, 11:27 AM ET WASHINGTON (AFP) - US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice pushed Syria Thursday to close its Iraq border to foreign fighters and to crack down on Palestinian extremists if it wants to thaw frosty ties with Washington. Bush faces pressure on Iraq as Blair leaves Thu May 10, 3:32 PM ET WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President George W. Bush faced mounting pressure on Thursday from fellow Republicans as well as Democrats to show progress in Iraq within months or risk a collapse in support for the war. British police make 4 terror arrests Thu May 10, 2:37 AM ET LONDON - British police arrested four people Wednesday in connection with the suicide bombings that killed 52 bus and subway passengers in London in 2005. Large majorities favor giving UN more powers: global surveys Thu May 10, 2:23 AM ET UNITED NATIONS (AFP) - Global surveys show large majorities favoring the UN Security Council using force to stop genocide, nuclear proliferation and terrorism, according to findings released Thursday. Gates rejects emergency command proposal Wed May 9, 11:02 PM ET WASHINGTON - Defense Secretary Robert Gates has rejected a proposal to let governors command active duty troops responding to disasters, officials said Wednesday, though the Pentagon will grant National Guard leaders more authority to coordinate with other military and homeland security agencies. Doctor in terror trial defends himself Wed May 9, 10:54 PM ET NEW YORK - A Florida doctor accused of pledging to support terrorists testified Wednesday that he never believed he was agreeing to aid al-Qaida when he took an oath from an FBI agent the government says was posing as a terror recruiter. Veto threat looms over security bill Wed May 9, 9:40 PM ET WASHINGTON - The Bush administration warned the House on Wednesday that legislation to authorize Homeland Security Department programs would face a veto if it gives the agency's 170,000 employees greater collective bargaining rights. Doctor in NY terrorism case denies al Qaeda link Wed May 9, 7:35 PM ET NEW YORK (Reuters) - A Florida doctor accused of swearing allegiance to al Qaeda and agreeing to treat wounded fighters testified on Wednesday that he supported neither the militant Islamist group nor its leader Osama bin Laden and was confused when he appeared to do so. Democrats, White House clash on homeland security Wed May 9, 7:26 PM ET WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Democratic-led U.S. House of Representatives defied a White House veto threat on Wednesday, voting to increase job protections at the Department of Homeland Security and provide the agency with $2.1 billion more than President George W. Bush requested. Germany launches anti-militant raids before summit Wed May 9, 7:01 PM ET BERLIN (Reuters) - German police used water cannon to disperse protesters in the northern city of Hamburg on Wednesday following a series of raids on anti-globalization organizations ahead of a June G8 summit on the Baltic coast. Fear of G-8 violence prompts German raid Wed May 9, 4:50 PM ET BERLIN - Hundreds of German police used anti-terrorism laws Wednesday to raid the offices and apartments of globalization opponents they fear could disrupt next month's Group of Eight summit with firebombings and other attacks. US public rejects Bush&#39;s rationale for keeping troops in Iraq Wed May 9, 3:25 PM ET WASHINGTON (AFP) - A majority of Americans back a timetable for the withdrawal of US troops from Iraq and do not believe keeping forces in the country will prevent future terrorist attacks, a new poll showed Wednesday. London bomber&#39;s widow among new arrests over massacre Wed May 9, 1:11 PM ET LONDON (AFP) - Anti-terror police arrested four more suspects Wednesday over the July 2005 suicide attacks in London, including the widow of one of the bombers who killed 52 people. One in three businesses fear terrorist attack: Lloyd&#39;s Wed May 9, 11:06 AM ET LONDON (Reuters) - More than a third of international businesses fear they could become the victims of a terrorist attack, a report by Lloyd&#39;s of London insurance market said on Wednesday. Raids across northern Germany on G8 terror fear Wed May 9, 6:35 AM ET BERLIN (Reuters) - German authorities launched raids is six German states on Wednesday on concerns left-wing radicals were planning attacks to disrupt a Group of Eight (G8) summit in the Baltic resort of Heiligendamm next month, prosecutors said. Saudi report: Terror cell had Syria base Tue May 8, 6:33 PM ET RIYADH, Saudi - One of seven recently exposed Saudi terrorist cells used Syria as a base for coordinating with al-Qaida in Iraq and held training camps in the desert of neighboring Yemen, a newspaper owned by Saudi Arabia's royal family said Tuesday. Jury chosen in former "enemy combatant" trial Tue May 8, 6:14 PM ET MIAMI (Reuters) - Defense lawyers accused the U.S. government of trying to oust anyone with Muslim ties from the jury seated on Tuesday to try former "dirty bomber" suspect Jose Padilla and two other men on charges of supporting terrorism. Jury seated for Padilla terror trial Tue May 8, 5:25 PM ET MIAMI - A jury was seated Tuesday to hear the trial of alleged al-Qaida operative Jose Padilla and two co-defendants, accused of being part of a North American support cell for Islamic extremists around the world. Jury selected in trial of US terror suspect Padilla Tue May 8, 3:51 PM ET MIAMI (AFP) - Lawyers on Tuesday concluded jury selection in the trial of US terror suspect Jose Padilla, picking five women and seven men to try the onetime gang member on charges he plotted to maim and murder people outside the United States. N.Y. to move state primary from Sept. 11 Tue May 8, 2:18 PM ET ALBANY, N.Y. - New York lawmakers plan to shift this year's state primary to a week after Sept. 11 to avoid distracting from ceremonies marking the terrorist attacks six years earlier. Anti-drugs fight key to defeating terrorism: US official Tue May 8, 11:01 AM ET MADRID (AFP) - Efforts to tackle drug trafficking are a key part of the fight against terrorism as the two activities are increasingly linked, the head of the US Drug Enforcement Administration said here Tuesday. More in Yahoo! News U.S. News & World Report A Sri Lankan airlines Airbus takes off from the Bandaranaike International Airport, 03 May 2007.... Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida Covert CIA prisons reported &raquo; More Top Stories Photos Get the Untold Story Kevin Sites in the Hot Zone: Covering all of the world's conflicts. &raquo; Kevin Sites in the Hot Zone Freshen up your PC and make it look and run just like new. The latest Iraq news, analysis, photos, video and more. &raquo; More Iraq Coverage Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page (Learn about My Yahoo! and RSS) &raquo; More News Feeds
