http://./topic1/four.txt	Miss Japan crowned Miss Universe 2007		Japanese model Riyo Mori was crowned Miss Universe 2007 at a global beauty contest, defeating 77 other candidates from around the world. Dressed in a black, red and purple Japanese-style gown, Riyo Mori nervously grabbed the hands of first runner-up, Natalia Guimaraes of Brazil, just before the winner was announced. Then she threw her hands up and covered her mouth, overcome with emotion.		But she gathered herself together enough to catch the diamond-and-pearl-studded headpiece valued at $250,000 as it slipped off her head when Miss Universe 2006 Zuleyka Rivera of Puerto Rico crowned her. Mori immediately placed it back on her head.		"I'm really happy, I cannot believe it yet," said Mori, whose ambition is to open an international dance school in Tokyo. As winner of the Miss Universe contest, Mori is given an apartment in New York which she may use for one year, an undisclosed salary, a complete wardrobe including a luxury watch and a scholarship for two years of film study in New York. She will also travel the world for a year on behalf of charities and pageant sponsors.		Mori is the second Japanese woman to win the Miss Universe pageant, after Akiko Kojima in 1959. A lifelong ballet dancer from a village near Mount Fuji, Mori wore a striking black gown with colored lapels for the final. Winning surpassed the ambition of her grandmother, who told her as a child she wanted her to be Miss Japan one day. "My mind went blank," she said of the winning moment.		Miss USA Rachel Smith, who slipped and fell to the floor during the evening gown competition and was jeered by the Mexican audience during the interview phase, was the contest's fourth runner-up.		First runner up was Natalia Guimaraes, 22, from Brazil. The second runner-up was Ly Jonaitis, 21, from Venezuela. Ningning Zhang from China, 20, won the Miss Congeniality award, while Anna Theresa Licaros, 22, from the Philippines, was chosen Miss Photogenic. Luck ran out for India's Puja Gupta who made it to the top 10, but was shown the door by the jury in the top 5 round.		The event was watched by a live audience of 10,000 and some 600 million television viewers worldwide. The 15 finalists from a field of 77 contestants were announced early in Monday's show. They were picked last week during preliminary judging in the contest's swimsuit, evening gown and interview categories. Their names were not announced until Monday, allowing all 77 to be introduced to the television audience.		As soon as the final 15 had been selected, they immediately strutted across the stage in animal-print bikinis for the swimsuit competition. After the evening gown competition, five contestants were eliminated, and the judges chose the winner from the five remaining. daily times monitor.