http://./topic4/york-dispatch.txt	Justice will dig deeper into Goodling's actions, expand investigation	THE ASSOCIATED PRESS	May 31, 2007		WASHINGTON -- Justice Department investigators have told Congress that an internal probe of the firings of U.S. attorneys has been widened to include a broader examination of hiring practices at the sprawling department, including the troubled Civil Rights Division, and programs for beginning lawyers.		"We have expanded the scope of our investigation to include allegations regarding improper political or other considerations in hiring decisions within the Department of Justice," Inspector General Glenn Fine and H. Marshall Jarrett, head of the Office of Professional Responsibility, wrote in joint letters to the House and Senate Judiciary committees.		A spokesman for Attorney General Alberto Gonzales declined to comment on the broadening of the probe.		Goodling testimony: The rare letter updating lawmakers on a Justice investigation comes a week after the department's former White House aide, Northeastern High School graduate Monica Goodling, admitted that she "crossed the line" in considering job applicants' loyalty to the Republican Party before approving their hires. Doing so is illegal.		The Justice probe now is looking at hiring practices in at least three areas, including:		---Those by Goodling and other Justice officials.		---The Civil Rights Division.		---The department's honors programs and summer law intern positions.		Critics say the honors program, which has long been filled with graduates from Ivy League and other prestigious law schools, has been opened to applicants with mostly political credentials. However, Justice officials say the program's applicants are all reviewed by an outside committee before they are hired by the deputy attorney general's office.		Career lawyers: The Civil Rights Division has seen the departure of dozens of career lawyers. The career personnel repeatedly clashed with Bush administration political appointees, who overruled them on pivotal voting-rights cases in Georgia and Texas.		One former senior official in the division, Bradley Schlozman, replaced one of the fired U.S. attorneys -- Todd Graves of Kansas City, Mo. -- and attracted controversy by indicting four workers involved in a voter registration drive sponsored by a liberal group days before the November elections. Both Schlozman and Graves are scheduled to testify Tuesday before the Senate Judiciary Committee.		Fine and Jarrett could recommend internal disciplinary actions and have the power to refer cases for criminal prosecution. A final report will be made public, officials said.		Leaving office: Justice officials said yesterday that a prosecutor at the center of the firings scandal, interim U.S. Attorney Tim Griffin of Little Rock, Ark., is leaving office effective today. Griffin, a former Republican National Committee researcher and aide to presidential adviser Karl Rove, replaced fired prosecutor Bud Cummins. Griffin withdrew his nomination for the job permanently amid uproar over his appointment.		Meanwhile, Democrats Patrick Leahy of Vermont and John Conyers of Michigan, the chairs of the Senate and House panels, respectively, said the allegations show the need for greater oversight at the Justice Department. And Sen. Charles E. Schumer, D-N.Y., called anew for Gonzales to resign.		"As long as Mr. Gonzales remains attorney general, no internal probe is going to clear the air," Schumer said.		From Goodling's statement		Last week, Monica Goodling began a full day of testimony before the U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary Committee with a prepared statement. The following portion addresses her role in hiring.		"Fourth, I wish to clarify my role in career hiring at the Department.		"During my five years at the Department, I believe I interviewed hundreds of job applicants. The vast majority of these were applicants for political appointee positions, but some were applicants for a few categories of career positions. Specifically, I interviewed candidates who were to be detailed into confidential, policy-making positions and Attorney General appointments, such as Immigration Judges and Members of the Board of Immigration Appeals. I also reviewed requests for waivers of hiring freezes imposed on districts with an outgoing U.S. Attorney or an Interim or Acting U.S. Attorney.		"In every case, I tired to act in good faith and for the purpose of ensuring that the Department was staffed by well-qualified individuals who were supportive of the Attorney General's views, priorities, and goals. Nevertheless, I do acknowledge that I may have gone too far in asking political questions of applicants for career positions, and may have taken inappropriate political considerations into account on some occasions. I regret these mistakes." 	